# 1840_Document_1840

_Converted from PDF using pdftotext_

OFFICE OF FEDERAL PROCUREMENT POLICY (OFPP)
May 18, 1994

POLICY LETTER NO. 93-1 (REISSUED)
## TO THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND ESTABLISHMENTS
SUBJECT: Management Oversight of Service Contracting
1. Purpose. This Policy Letter establishes Government-wide policy, assigns responsibilities,
and provides guiding principles for Executive Departments and agencies in
managing the acquisition and use of services.
2. Authority. This Policy Letter is issued pursuant to section 6(a) of the Office of Federal
Procurement Policy (OFPP) Act, as amended, codified at 41 U.S.C. section 405.
3. Background. On March 15, 1993, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Director
Leon Panetta requested that 17 major Executive Departments and agencies review
heir service contracting programs. The purpose of the review was to determine (1) if the
service contracts were accomplishing what was intended; (2) whether the contracts were
cost effective; and (3) whether inherently governmental functions were being performed by
contractors. The results of the reviews indicated that service contracting practices and
capabilities are uneven across the Executive branch and that various common managemen
problems need to be addressed.
In addition to the Director's review, the National Performance Review has found that improved support for customers of the procurement system is needed. To do this, it is
important that procurement officials work closely with program and other officials to develop
clear and precise statements of work for the products and services being acquired.
Contracting for services is especially complex and demands close collaboration between
procurement personnel and the users of the service to ensure that contractor performance
meets contract requirements and performance standards.
This Policy Letter -- which includes appropriate changes from Supplement No. 1 [59 Fed.
Reg. 4955 (1994)] -- has been revised to provide agencies with a more
results-oriented approach to managing and administering service contracts through the "bes
practices" concept. One way to achieve excellence in contractor performance is to
improve the acquisition, management, and administration of service contracts. This Policy
Letter provides guiding principles through the "best practices" concept that should help
agencies develop, analyze, and perfect requirements for service contracts which, in turn,
should help to improve contract management and administration. Other "best practices"
models in contract management and administration will be issued as separate guidance.
The guidance contained in the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular No. A-120,
"Guidelines for the Use of Advisory and Assistance Services," has been
rescinded by Transmittal Memorandum No. 1, [58 Fed. Reg. 63593 (1993) and 59 Fed. Reg.
789 (1994)].
4.

Definition. The following definitions are applicable to the Policy Letter:
a.

Services are identifiable tasks to be performed, rather than the delivery of an end item

of supply. For purposes of this Policy Letter, only services obtained under
nonpersonal services contracts are covered.
b. Best Practices. For purposes of this Policy Letter, best practices are techniques tha
agencies may use to help detect problems in the acquisition, management, and
administration of service contracts. Best practices are practical techniques gained from experience that agencies may use to improve the procurement process.
5. Exclusions. Excluded from coverage of this Policy Letter are services that are (1) obtained
hrough personnel appointments and advisory committees, (2) obtained through
personal services contracts authorized by statute, (3) for construction, as defined in section
36.102 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), or (4) obtained through
interagency agreements where the work is being performed by in-house federal employees.
Also excluded from coverage of this Policy Letter are services obtained under contracts
below the small purchase threshold, and services incidental to supply contracts.
However, agencies should ensure that they are in compliance with appropriate OFPP Policy
Letters applicable to service contracting and use good management practices and
contract administration techniques when using these contracting methods to obtain services.
6.

Policy. When contracting for services, it is the policy of the Federal Government that:

a. Program officials are responsible for accurately describing the need to be filled or problem to be resolved through service contracting to assure full understanding and
responsive performance by contractors, and should obtain assistance from contracting officials, as needed.
b. Services are to be obtained and used in ways that ensure that the Government retains
inherently governmental decision-making authority.
c. Services are to be obtained in the most cost effective manner, without barriers to full
and open competition, and free of any potential conflicts of interest.
d. Sufficient trained and experienced officials are available within the agency to manage
and oversee the contract administration function.
e. Effective management practices are used to implement the guiding principles contained
herein to prevent waste, fraud, and abuse in services contracting.
7. Good Management Practices. While effective management oversight is required for all
ypes of service contracts, some require less oversight than others, as, for example, such
routine services as lawn mowing and food preparation. Conversely, services that tend to affec
Government decision-making, support or influence policy development, or affec
program management are more susceptible to abuse. These, therefore, require a greater level
of scrutiny.
The following sections offer guidance to ensure that good management practices are being
followed. Agencies should involve procurement and program officials when
developing requirements for service contracts. Appendix A contains a series of questions to
help analyze and perfect service contract requirements within these guidelines. If the
below guidelines apply, and if the response to any of the questions listed in the Appendix is
affirmative, agencies should ensure that they are in compliance with appropriate OFPP

Policy Letters applicable to service contracting, and use good management practices and
contract administration techniques. Agencies should also continue to comply with the FAR
guidance for specialized categories of contracting such as research and development (Part 35)
and architect and engineering (Part 36) as they use the guidance in this Policy Letter.
a. Inherently Governmental Functions. When contracting for services, agencies mus
ensure that any final agency action reflects the informed, independent judgement of
agency officials. Contractors thus must not be allowed to perform inherently Governmental
functions as defined in OFPP Policy Letter 92-1, Inherently Governmental Functions
(57 Fed. Reg. 45096 (1992).
b. Cost Effectiveness. When a valid requirement exists, agency officials must ensure tha
he requirement is obtained in the most cost effective manner. If contractor suppor
is deemed appropriate, agencies should ensure that their acquisition strategy will result in the
acquisition of services from a quality vendor that constitute the best value considering
costs and other relevant factors, and yield the greatest benefit to the Government.
c. Control. When contracting for services, in particular for highly specialized or technical
services, agencies should ensure that a sufficient number of trained and
experienced officials is available within the agency to manage and oversee the contract administration function. This especially applies to such services as management and
professional support, studies, analyses, and evaluations, and engineering and technical support. Agency officials need to be able to make sound judgements on what the
requirements should be, the estimated costs, and whether the contractor is performing according to the contract terms and conditions. Agency officials must retain control over, and
remain accountable for, policy decisions that may be based, in part, on a contractor's performance and work products. Agency officials must also provide an enhanced degree of
management controls and oversight when contracting for functions that closely support the
performance of inherently Governmental functions.
d. Conflicts of Interest. Agency officials must ensure that any actual or potential conflicts
of interest are identified and that appropriate steps are taken to avoid, neutralize, or
mitigate them. Service contracts are not to be awarded to any individual or organization that is
unable, or potentially unable, to render impartial advice or assistance to the
Government, or that has an unfair competitive advantage over competing contractors unless
every effort is first taken to mitigate such conflict or advantage. OFPP Policy Letter
89-1, Conflicts of Interest Policies Applicable to Consultants, 54 Fed. Reg. 51805 (1989) and
## FAR
Subpart 9.5 provide detailed guidance on conflicts of interest.
e. Competition. Full and open competition will assure cost effectiveness and reduce the
potential for favoritism and conflict of interest. To maximize competition, the
Competition in Contracting Act requires thorough acquisition planning and limits exceptions.
The Act provides that lack of advance planning is not adequate justification for sole
source contracting. Any justification for a noncompetitive contract should provide a detailed
explanation as to why competition can not be achieved. Plans should be made to
minimize the number of subsequent noncompetitive awards.
8.

Responsibilities.
a.

Heads of Agencies. Agency heads (or their designees) should ensure that:

(1) Requirements for services are clearly defined and appropriate performance standards are developed so that contractor performance meets contract terms and conditions.
(2) Service contracts are awarded and administered in such a manner that will provide
he customer its goods and services of significant quality, on time, and within budget.
(3) Specific procedures are in place when contracting for services to assure compliance
with OFPP Policy Letters 92-1, Inherently Governmental Functions (57 Fed. Reg.
45096 (1992), 91-2, Service Contracting (56 Fed. Reg. 15110 (1991), and 89-1, Conflicts of
Interest Policies Applicable to Consultants, 54 Fed. Reg. 51805 (1989).
(4) Implementation strategies are developed and necessary staff training is initiated to
assure effective implementation of these policies.
b. Contracting Officials. Contracting officials should ensure that "best practice" techniques, such as those set forth below, are used when contracting for services:
(1) The corporate experience section of an offeror's proposal should be reviewed to
detect conflicts of interest. Usually, the corporate experience
section contains the contractor's prior business clients.
(2) Monthly progress reports should be reviewed to detect whether the contractor may
be performing inherently governmental functions.
Contracting officials should also seek other best practices techniques in contract management and administration that may be used within their own contracting activities or
other agencies that will help to achieve excellence in contractor performance.
OFPP will also be working to develop governmentwide "best practices" models in contrac
administration which will be issued as separate guidance.
c. Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council. Pursuant to sections 6(a) and 25(f) of the
OFPP Act, as amended, 41 U.S.C. 401 et seq., the Federal Acquisition Regulatory
Council shall ensure that the policies established herein are incorporated in the FAR within 210
days from the date this Policy Letter is published in the Federal Register. The 210
day period is considered a "timely manner" as prescribed in 41 U.S.C. 405(b).
d. Inspectors General. The Inspectors General are encouraged to conduct vulnerability
assessments of service contracting and, where warranted, include in their annual plans
a review of service contracts to ensure compliance with this Policy Letter.
The guidance in section 7 which refers to the questions in Appendix A, or any resulting
"best practices" models developed by OFPP should not be viewed as mandatory
regulatory guidance for audit purposes.
9. Judicial Review. This Policy Letter is not intended to provide a constitutional or statutory
interpretation of any kind and it is not intended, and should not be construed, to
create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against the
United States, its agencies, its officers, or any person. It is intended only to provide
policy guidance to agencies in the exercise of their discretion concerning Federal contracting.

Thus, this Policy Letter is not intended, and should not be construed, to create any
substantive or procedural basis on which to challenge any agency action or inaction on the
ground that such action or inaction was not in accordance with this Policy Letter.
10. Information Contact. For information regarding this Policy Letter contact Linda G. Williams, Deputy Associate Administrator, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, 725
17th Street, NW, Washington, DC, 20503. Telephone (202) 395-3302.
11. Effective Date. This Policy Letter is effective 30 days after the date of issuance. While
hese policies must be implemented in the FAR, it is expected that agencies will take all
appropriate actions in the interim to develop implementation strategies and initiate staff training, consistent with section 8a(4), to ensure effective implementation of these policies.
Steven Kelman
Administrator

Appendix A
The following is a series of questions to help agencies analyze and review requirements for
service contracts.

A. Inherently Governmental Functions
If the response to the first question is affirmative, the contract requirement is for an inherently
Governmental function that must be performed by Government officials; if the
response to the second question is affirmative, the contract requirement may be for an inherently governmental function:
(1) Is the requirement for a function that is listed in Appendix A of OFPP Policy Letter 92-1,
Inherently Governmental Functions?
(2) If the function is not listed in Appendix A, do any of the factors in the "totality of the
circumstances" analysis discussed in section 7(b) of Policy Letter 92- 1 indicate tha
he function may be inherently governmental?

B. Cost Effectiveness
If the response to any of the following questions is affirmative, the agency may not have a valid
requirement or not be obtaining the requirement in the most cost effective manner:
(1) Is the statement of work so broadly written that it does not support the need for a
specific service?
(2) Is the statement of work so broadly written that it does not permit adequate evaluation
of contractor versus in-house cost and performance?
(3) Is the choice of contract type, quality assurance plan, competition strategy, or other
related acquisition strategies and procedures in the acquisition plan inappropriate to
ensure good contractor performance to meet the user's needs?
(4)

If a cost reimbursement contract is contemplated, is the acquisition plan inadequate to

address the proper type of cost reimbursement to ensure that the contractor will have
he incentive to control costs under the contract?
(5) Is the acquisition plan inadequate to address the cost effectiveness of using contractor
support (either long- term or short-term) versus in-house performance?
(6) Is the cost estimate, or other supporting cost information, inadequate to enable the
contracting office to effectively determine whether costs are reasonable?
(7) Is the statement of work inadequate to describe the requirement in terms of "what" is to
be performed as opposed to "how" the work is be accomplished?
(8) Is the acquisition plan inadequate to ensure that there is proper consideration given to
"quality" and "best value"?

C. Control
If the response to any of the following questions is affirmative, there may be a control problem:
(1) Are there insufficient resources to evaluate contractor performance when the statemen
of work requires the contractor to provide advice, analysis and evaluation, opinions,
alternatives, or recommendations that could significantly influence agency policy developmen
or decision-making?
(2) Is the quality assurance plan too general to monitor adequately contractor performance?
(3) Is the statement of work so broadly written that it does not specify a contract deliverable or require progress reporting on contractor performance?
(4) Is there concern that the agency lacks the expertise to evaluate independently the
contractor's approach, methodology, results, options, conclusions, or recommendations?
(5) Is the requirement for a function or service listed in Appendix B of OFPP Policy Letter
92-1, or similar to a function or service on that list, such that greater managementscrutiny is
required of the contract terms and the manner of its performance?

D. Conflicts of Interests
If the response to any of the following questions is affirmative, there may be a conflict of interest:
(1) Can the potential offeror perform under the contract in such a way as to devise solutions or make recommendations that would influence the award of future contracts to tha
contractor?
(2) If the requirement is for support services (such as system engineering or technical
direction), were any of the potential offerors involved in developing the system design
specifications or in the production of the system?
(3) Has the potential offeror participated in earlier work involving the same program or
activity that is the subject of the present contract wherein the offeror had access to

source selection or proprietary information not available to other offerors competing for the
contract?
(4)

Will the contractor be evaluating a competitor's work?

(5) Does the contract allow the contractor to accept its own products or activities on behalf
of the Government?
(6) Will the work, under this contract, put the contractor in a position to influence Government decision-making, e.g., developing regulations, that will affect the contractor's
current or future business?
(7)

Will the work under this contract affect the interests of the contractor's other clients?

(8) Are any of the potential offerors, or their personnel who will perform the contract,
former agency officials who -- while employed by the agency -- personally and
substantially participated in (a) the development of the requirement for, or (b) the procuremen
of, these services within the past two years?

E. Competition
If the response to any of the following questions is affirmative, competition may be unnecessarily limited:
(1) Is the statement of work narrowly defined with overly restrictive specifications or performance standards?
(2) Is the contract formulated in such a way as to create a continuous and dependen
arrangement with the same contractor?
(3) Is the use of an indefinite quantity or term contract arrangement inappropriate to obtain
he required services?

(4)
ion?

Will the requirement be obtained through the use of other than full and open competi-

