# 1845_Document_1845

_Converted from PDF using pdftotext_

## EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
## OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20503

OFFICE OF FEDERAL PROCUREMENT POLICY
August 8, 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR:
## AGENCY SENIOR PROCUREMENT EXECUTIVES
THE DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE (ACQUISITION REFORM)
PERFORMANCE-BASED SERVICE CONTRACTING (PBSC) POINTS OF CONTACT

FROM:
Steven Kelman /signed/
Administrator
SUBJECT: PBSC Checklis
Attached is a copy of the final PBSC Solicitation/Contract/Task Order Review Checklis
reflecting the comments we received. You are encouraged to distribute the Checklist to
program and contracting officials within your agency, and to utilize it in developing PBSC
contracting documents and determining whether an acquisition is performance-based.
Please contact Stanley Kaufman of my staff at (202) 395-6810, if you have any questions
regarding the document.

Attachment

Performance-Based Service Contracting (PBSC)
Solicitation/Contract/Task Order Review Checklis
The following checklist is provided as a guide that may be used to aid in developing a
performance-based solicitation, contract or task order, and to assist in determining whether an
existing solicitation, contract or task order may be appropriately classified as performancebased. This checklist is not intended to usurp contracting officer discretion or authority
regarding how to structure an acquisition. However, the more an acquisition departs from
adherence to the checklist, the less likely the agency will achieve the benefits of improved
contractor performance and lower price that PBSC can provide.
This checklist contains minimum required elements that must be present for an acquisition to
be considered performance-based. To be effective, these elements must be communicated to
potential offerors in time to be considered when developing their proposals. It also contains
additional PBSC components important to ensuring the Government obtains the benefits of
PBSC and "other considerations" that are not performance-based contracting methods per se
but that nevertheless so directly affect the success of PBSC that they are included.

This document is but one tool to assist in developing and assessing PBSC, and it is
purposefully not detailed or explanatory. For more fundamental discussions of PBSC, see:
Federal Acquisition Circular 97-1; Federal Acquisition Regulation Subpart 37.6; and OFPP’s
Policy Letter 91-2, "Service Contracting" and "A Guide to Best Practices for PerformanceBased Service Contracting." The latter two publications are available from the Executive Office
of the President’s Office of Publications, 202-395-7332 and the Acquisition Reform Network,
www.arnet.gov.

Minimum Mandatory PBSC Requirements
1. Performance requirements that define the work in measurable, mission-related terms.
2. Performance standards (i.e., quality, quantity, timeliness) tied to the performance
requirements.
3. A Government quality assurance (QA) plan that describes how the contractor’s performance
will be measured against the performance standards.
4. If the acquisition is either critical to agency mission accomplishment or requires relatively
large expenditures of funds, positive and negative incentives tied to the Government QA plan
measurements.

Additional PBSC Components
5. An historic workload analysis is performed, or the workload is estimated if historic data is
unavailable, to aid in determining the performance requirements and standards, Governmen
QA plan, and incentives.
6. The solicitation and contract/task order convey a logical, easily understood flow among
performance requirements, performance standards, Government QA, and performance
incentives.
7. Process-oriented requirements (e.g., job descriptions, education requirements, level-ofeffort) and reports are eliminated to the maximum feasible extent.
8. Government QA performance evaluators assigned to assess contractor performance are
rained in PBSC.
9. Commercial and/or industry-wide performance standards, where available, are relied upon.
10. The marketplace and other stakeholders are provided the opportunity to comment on draf
performance requirements and standards, the Government QA plan, and performance
incentives.
11. If the size of the requirement justifies the resource expenditures, potential offerors are
given the opportunity to learn more about the "as is" operation to facilitate their ability to
develop intelligent proposals.
12. The contract/task order is fixed price.
13. The contract/task order is completion type (vs. term type or level-of-effort).

14. Multi-year contracting authority is used where available.
15. Experience and lessons learned from predecessor acquisitions are used to conver
recurring requirements to PBSC.

Other Considerations
16. Past performance evaluations are based on the results of contract QA measurements and
incentives, and QA plans are consistent with past performance factors.
17. For recurring requirements that have been converted to PBSC, the effects of conversion
are measured (e.g., price, performance).
18. The contract/task order is awarded competitively.
19. Best value evaluation/selection methods are used to award the contract/task order.
20. Informal conflict resolution methods are utilized (e.g., alternative dispute resolution,
ombudsman, formal partnering agreements).
21. An umbrella-type contract that has demonstrated significant performance problems, cos
overruns, or has included an amount of work that is too great or diverse to be effectively
managed by either the Government or the contractor, is broken up into multiple contracts.

Last Updated: August 26, 1997

