# 1847_Document_1847

_Converted from PDF using pdftotext_

## EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
## O F F I C E O F M AN AG E M E N T AN D B U D G E T
W ASHINGTON, D.C. 20503

DEPUTY DIRECTOR
## FOR MAN AGEMENT

January 20, 2006

MEMORANDUM FOR CHIEF ACQUISITION OFFICERS
## SENIOR PROCUREMENT EXECUTIVES
FROM:

Clay Johnson III
Deputy Director for Managemen

SUBJECT:

The Federal Acquisition Certification in Contracting Program

In April 2005, the Office of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP) published Policy Letter
05-01, Developing and Managing the Acquisition Workforce, which required the Federal
Acquisition Institute (FAI) to develop, and the Chief Acquisition Officers Council (CAOC) to
approve, a certification program for contracting professionals in civilian agencies that reflects
common standards. The goal of the certification program is to standardize the education,
raining, and experience requirements for contracting professionals, which will improve
workforce competencies and increase career opportunities. The attached Federal Acquisition
Certification in Contracting Program was approved by the CAOC in December 2005.
The program mirrors, as closely as possible, the requirements that the Department of
Defense established for its contracting workforce under the Defense Acquisition Workforce
Improvement Act. The program will be administered by each civilian agency, and FAI will
conduct periodic reviews to ensure that the program is being managed consistently. The
certification shall be accepted by, at minimum, all civilian agencies as evidence that an employee
meets the core education, training, and experience requirements to be a contracting professional
(generally the GS-1102 series).
A well-trained acquisition workforce is critical to ensuring that agencies accomplish their
mission goals. Investment in the development of the federal acquisition workforce will improve
our ability to meet mission needs and continue being effective stewards of taxpayer dollars. If
you have questions regarding the implementation of the program, please call Lesley Field on the
OFPP staff at (202) 395-7579.
Attachmen
cc: Chief Human Capital Officers

Attachment

The Federal Acquisition Certification in Contracting Program
1. Purpose. The purpose of the Federal Acquisition Certification in Contracting (FAC-C)
program is to establish core requirements for education, training, and experience for contracting
professionals in civilian agencies.
2. Authority. This certification program is issued pursuant to section 6(a) of the Office of
Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP) Act, as amended (41 U.S.C. § 405(a)), 6(c)(5) of the OFPP
Act, as amended (41 U.S.C. § 405(c)(5)), sections 37(b)(3) and (g) of the OFPP Act, as amended
(41 U.S.C. § 433(b)(3) and (g)), and OFPP Policy Letter 05-01, paragraph 8(b).
Based on these authorities, all executive agencies, except those subject to the Defense
Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA), shall accept the FAC-C as evidence that an
employee meets the applicable core education, training, and experience requirements for the
general schedule (GS)-1102 series.
3. Background. OFPP Policy Letter 05-01 established a requirement for federal acquisition
certification programs. Section 8(b) of this Letter required the Federal Acquisition Institute
(FAI) to develop, and the Chief Acquisition Officers Council (CAOC) to approve, a FAC-C
program. The FAC-C program was approved by the CAOC in December 2005.
4. Applicability. The FAC-C program applies to all executive agencies, except those subject to
DAWIA (10 U.S.C. §§ 1701-64).
The federal certification in contracting is not mandatory for all GS-1102s; however, members of
he workforce issued new Contracting Officer (CO) warrants on or after January 1, 2007,
regardless of GS series, must be certified at an appropriate level to support their warran
obligations, pursuant to agency policy. New CO warrants are defined in Policy Letter 05-01 as
warrants issued to employees for the first time at a department or agency. This requirement does
not apply to:
•
•
•

senior level officials responsible for delegating procurement authority;
non-1102s whose warrants are generally used to procure emergency goods and services;
or
non-1102s whose warrants are so limited as to be outside the scope of this program, as
determined by the Chief Acquisition Officer (CAO).

Agencies have discretion to make additional warranting requirements, and employees should
review carefully agency warranting policy. CAOs shall establish agency-specific requirements
for tying warrant levels to certification levels based on agency needs. However, agencies are
encouraged to require a senior level certification for any employee issued an unlimited

1

Contracting Officer’s warrant on or after January 1, 2007. All agency warranting programs
should be updated to reflect the need for a minimum of 80 continuous learning points every two
years (see paragraph 6.e.).
The SPE of a civilian agency may waive the requirement for obtaining a certification for
warranting purposes in writing, on a case-by-case basis, if granting a waiver is in the best interes
of the agency. This authority may not be delegated, and the use of this authority shall be
adequately documented. This waiver is not transferable to another agency.
The certification program is available to all members of the federal acquisition workforce and the
volume of requests may be significant when the program begins. For agency planning purposes,
priority for consideration will be as follows:
•
•
•
•

all warranted COs in the GS-1102 contracting series and non-DOD uniformed personnel
in comparable positions;
all warranted COs regardless of general schedule series with authority to obligate funds
above the micropurchase threshold;
other GS-1102s;
other eligible individuals.

5. Certification Program Oversight and Administration. The FAI Board of Directors, in
consultation with FAI, the Interagency Acquisition Career Management Council (IACMC), and
other organizations as appropriate, shall provide general program oversight and shall recommend
program changes to the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy to ensure that the program
reflects the needs of all civilian agencies. Changes to the program may be communicated
formally through the CAOC or through other means, depending on the significance of the
change. FAI shall maintain the most current version of the FAC-C program on its website,
www.fai.gov.
FAI shall administer the program through issuance of guidance, processes, and information
dissemination, principally through its website. Additionally, FAI shall periodically review
agencies’ implementation to ensure that the program remains rigorous and that the standards for
certification for education, training, experience, and continuous learning are consistently applied
by all civilian agencies.
FAI shall conduct periodic agency audits to validate that the standards for the certification
program are being met. Audit checks may include:
•
•
•
•

verifying that the agency maintains FAC-C applications;
auditing an individual’s records for documentation that they attended the training
reported on the FAC-C application;
verifying that a rigorous fulfillment process is being followed by the agency and tha
his process is aligned with the Department of Defense (DOD) DAWIA fulfillmen
process; and
after January 1, 2007, verifying that new warrant holders are appropriately certified in
accordance with agency-specific policy.

2

The certification process, including verification and assessment of applications, will be managed
by each agency. Authority for overseeing the agency FAC-C program, resolving disputes, and
granting certifications shall be at the Senior Procurement Executive (SPE) level. The SPE may
delegate, in writing, certain functions to a level no lower than the Acquisition Career Manager
(ACM), as needed, to ensure effective and efficient management of the program. The SPE may
not delegate the waiver function as defined in the GS-1102 Qualification Standard.
The ACM, appointed by the CAO under Policy Letter 05-01, or designee, is responsible for
administering the agency certification program, including developing a communications strategy,
in accordance with this and any subsequent guidance provided by OFPP or FAI. The ACM shall
also serve on the Interagency Acquisition Career Management Committee (IACMC), which is
run by FAI, to ensure that workforce development policies and opportunities meet the needs of
he acquisition workforce.
6. General Information on Core Competencies and the FAC-C Requirements for
Education, Training, Experience, and Continuous Learning.
a. Competencies - Although DOD and OFPP retain responsibility for managing their
respective workforces, the establishment of core competencies will ensure that the acquisition
community develops common skills. The objective of the FAC-C is to align the core
competencies and training requirements across the acquisition workforce, and the curren
competencies for the GS-1102 workforce shall be maintained on the FAI website, www.fai.gov.
However, these core competencies will periodically be updated, expanded, or otherwise modified
o meet the current and future acquisition workforce requirements, and specialized competencies
may be developed to support emerging trends in the government’s acquisition practices. OFPP,
Dodd, and OPM shall establish a competency management process to ensure that the core
competencies remain relevant and current and are integrated into the curriculum, as appropriate.
b. Education - This program does not change the education requirement in the Qualification
Standard for Contract Specialist (GS-1102). The civilian (non-DOD) and DOD education
requirements for the GS-1102 series differ at grades 5 through 12 (or equivalent). In accordance
with the Qualification Standard, available on www.opm.gov, persons in civilian (non-DOD) GS1102 positions grades 5 through 12 are required to have, from an accredited institution, either 24semester hours of business related education OR a baccalaureate degree. Persons seeking
positions subject to DAWIA must have both 24-semester hours of business related education
AND a baccalaureate degree at all grade levels.
Civilian agency employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard,
including the education requirement, for positions they occupied on January 1, 2000. Appendix
A provides guidance on the subject areas and types of classes that meet the education
requirement, and agencies shall use this guidance to ensure consistent interpretation of the
standard. FAI and the Defense Acquisition University (DAU) will make further guidance
available on their respective websites, as needed.

3

Education waivers granted by an agency, in accordance with the Qualification Standard, are not
ransferable to other agencies and do not satisfy the education requirement for a FAC-C. An
employee must meet the appropriate education requirements to be certified.
c. Training - In accordance with OFPP Policy Letter 05-01, civilian agencies shall follow the
raining curriculum established by DOD (see paragraph 7). Core courses must be provided by
DAU or be considered DAU-equivalent courses. Agencies may require agency-specific training
as part of the elective requirements or continuous learning requirements, but additional agencyspecific training beyond the training specified under paragraph 7 is not required for certification.
Business-related academic courses that are recognized by DAU as equivalent to core courses
may be used to meet training requirements for this program.
When DAU modifies its curriculum, it publishes a list of predecessor classes that allows an
individual to associate past training with the new requirements. That list is provided in the DAU
catalog (www.dau.mil/catalog), and will assist individuals in determining the DAU courses or
DAU-equivalent courses that meet these requirements. FAI will make this information available
on its website as well.
As agreed to by the employee and supervisor, electives may be any training opportunity related
o the employee’s job, those necessary for career development, or those used for cross training.
Electives may include no-cost distance learning, assignment-specific courses, or other training
opportunities. Employees are encouraged to take courses that add to their knowledge base or
enhance existing skills; electives should generally be increasingly more complex throughout an
employee’s career progression. There are no DAU equivalency requirements for electives.
d. Experience - The requirements for experience are generally based on the Contrac
Specialist (GS-1102) Qualification Standard. Experience may be time spent on the job in a
contracting related job assignment, either in the private or public sector, that reflects the
accumulation of knowledge, skills, and abilities during years of progressively more responsible
work assignments.
e. Continuous Learning – To maintain a FAC-C, acquisition professionals are required to
earn 80 continuous learning points (CLPs) of skills currency training every two years beginning
October 1, 2007. During the transition to the FAC-C program, agencies are encouraged to be
flexible on how this requirement is met initially to ensure that employees are given credit for
earlier continuous learning activities. ACMs, or designees, shall monitor the continuous learning
requirements for employees holding FAC-Cs to ensure they meet this requirement. A FAC-C
will expire if the 80 CLPs are not earned every two years, and the SPE, or other appropriate
warranting authority, may choose to revoke or modify a warrant if this condition is not met. If
he SPE revokes or modifies a warrant, he or she must notify the warrant holder in writing when
he revocation or modification is to be effective, providing enough time and sufficient instruction
o ensure that no unauthorized obligations are made.
Civilian agencies shall generally follow the guidance provided by Dodd on how CLPs can be
earned. DAU equivalency is not required for continuous learning. Agencies are encouraged to
use continuous learning opportunities to assist individuals in obtaining core competencies,

4

maintaining critical acquisition skills, and acquiring agency-specific training. Continuous
learning activities include, but are not limited to, the following:
•
•
•
•

training activities, such as teaching, self-directed study, mentoring;
courses completed to achieve certification at the next higher level;
professional activities, such as attending/speaking/presenting at professional
seminars/symposia/conferences, publishing, and attending workshops; or
educational activities, such as formal training, and formal academic programs.

Appendix B provides guidance on earning CLPs and assigning points to various developmental
activities. FAI will provide additional guidance, as needed, on its website.
7. FAC-C Requirements for Education, Training, Experience, and Continuous Learning.
a. General - The FAC-C program is based on the DAWIA requirements for certification a
he junior, intermediate, and senior levels to reflect the need for an individual to mee
increasingly more rigorous standards for education, training, and experience throughout his or
her career. Federal certification levels are not directly associated with warrant limits as
certification requirements for warrants are determined by each agency. However, agencies are
encouraged to require a senior level certification for any employee issued an unlimited CO’s
warrant on or after January 1, 2007. Achievement of the FAC-C is based on three requirements:
education, training, and experience and the requirements are cumulative, (i.e., a person mus
meet the requirements of each previous certification level). Maintenance of a FAC-C is a
function of continuous learning, which is addressed in paragraph 6.e.
The requirements for the FAC-C are shown below. Agencies may determine that an assignmen
requires additional training beyond the FAC-C requirements. Many civilian agencies are moving
oward implementing new personnel systems that are not based on the general schedule system.
However, the education requirements in the Qualification Standard are tied to grade level and are
reflected in these requirements.
b. Level I 1) Education (see also paragraph 6.b) – Baccalaureate degree OR at least 24
semester hours among these disciplines: accounting, law, business, finance,
contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative
methods, and organization and management.

5

2) Training –
• CON 100 Shaping Smart Business Arrangements*
• CON 110 Mission Support Planning
• CON 111 Mission Strategy Execution
• CON 112 Mission Performance Assessmen
• CON 120 Mission Focused Contracting
• 1 Elective
3) Experience – 1 year of contracting experience
* CON 100 should be taken by those just entering the acquisition
workforce or those new to the government. Employees who are beginning
a level I certification program must take CON 100. Employees pursuing
Level II or Level III certifications may consider taking CON 100 as an
elective.
c. Level II* 1) Education (see also paragraph 6.b) – Baccalaureate degree OR at leas
24 semester hours among these disciplines: accounting, law, business,
finance, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management,
marketing, quantitative methods, and organization and management.
2) Training –
• CON 202 Intermediate Contracting
• CON 204 Intermediate Contract Pricing
• CON 210 Government Contract Law
• 2 Electives
3) Experience – 2 years of contracting experience
* DAU is in the process of revising the level II curriculum for FY07.
Employees are encouraged to complete CON 202, 204, and 210 training in
FY06, if possible, to facilitate the transition to the new curriculum.
d. Level III 1) Education (see also paragraph 6.b) - Baccalaureate degree AND at leas
24 semester hours among these disciplines: accounting, law, business,
finance, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management,
marketing, quantitative methods, and organization and management.
2) Training • CON 353 Advanced Business Solutions for Mission Suppor
• 2 Electives

6

3) Experience - 4 years of contracting experience
8. Ways to Meet the Requirements .
a. Education and Experience – A candidate must meet the education and
experience requirements established in the Contract Specialist (GS-1102) Qualification
Standard. There are no exceptions to these requirements and candidates must provide
evidence of this to the ACM. In accordance with the Qualification Standard, employees
in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard, including the education
requirement, for positions they occupied on January 1, 2000. Please see the Qualification
Standard on www.opm.gov for specific requirements for the GS-5 through GS-12 level,
and for GS-13 and above.
b. Training – A candidate must meet the training requirements by taking DAU
raining, DAU-equivalent courses, or through fulfillment.
1) DAU training or DAU-equivalent courses - A full list of the currently
required courses and their predecessor courses is available on
www.dau.mil/catalog and www.fai.gov. Candidates must provide evidence of
satisfactory completion of these courses.
2) Fulfillment - The FAC-C fulfillment process will follow the fulfillmen
process for DOD agencies so that the DAWIA certification and FAC-C
programs are closely aligned. Details regarding and tools for using DOD’s
fulfillment process will be maintained on the DAU and FAI websites, bu
generally candidates must submit, and supervisors must review, evidence as to
how the required competencies for a particular certification level were
attained through alternative training, experience, education, certification by
another recognized organization, or other developmental activities.
•

Alternative training: If an applicant obtained competencies through
courses that were not DAU or DAU-equivalent courses, he or she mus
provide for each competency the dates of training, course descriptions,
provider names, grades (if applicable), and competencies achieved, to
he maximum extent practicable. To facilitate this process, the
IACMC will recommend and FAI will approve certain common
acquisition training courses that members of the civilian agency
workforce completed in the past to meet the requirements of their
agency training program. The IACMC and FAI will review course
information to determine if the necessary competencies were presented
o fulfill all or part of a course requirement, and this information will
be available on the FAI website. This process will facilitate
fulfillment determinations by establishing common alternative training
courses that were taken previously by current members of the
acquisition workforce.

7

•
•

•

Experience: If the applicant is using job experience, he or she must
provide the agency name, dates, location, position title, and the duties
performed that provided the relevant competencies.
Education: If an applicant obtained competencies through academic
courses provided at an accredited institution, he or she must provide
he dates of each class, course descriptions, provider names, grades (if
applicable), and competencies achieved.
Certification by a recognized organization: Civilian agencies shall
follow the determinations made by DOD as to which certifications by
organizations outside the federal government are eligible for full or
partial consideration under the DAWIA and FAC-C programs. These
determinations are maintained by DAU as part of DOD’s fulfillmen
program and shall be maintained on the DAU and FAI websites.

c. DAWIA Certification – A valid, current DAWIA certification in contracting is
equivalent to a FAC-C at the same certification level. The employee is responsible for
providing the necessary documentation of the DAWIA certification and the appropriate
continuous learning history to ensure validity and currency of the DAWIA certification.
9. Application Processes. In consultation with the CAO and other agency stakeholders,
he SPE shall establish the agency process for applying for a FAC-C, verifying
information, granting the FAC-C, and maintaining currency. At a minimum, an
individual meeting the FAC-C requirements shall request certification through their
immediate supervisor. The individual is responsible for producing certificates,
ranscripts, and records that provide evidence that he or she satisfies the requirements for
he program. The supervisor should take this opportunity to assess the skills and
competencies of the applicant and develop a plan for enhancing or adding to the
employee’s competencies, if appropriate. FAI will develop checklists that agencies can
use for the FAC-C application process and will make these available on the FAI website.
The certification will be issued at the employing agency, but will represent the
achievement of government-wide standards. This decentralized approach will allow for
efficiency, especially during the first year of the FAC-C program. Authority to grant the
FAC-C shall be at the SPE level and may be delegated no lower than the ACM (see
paragraph 5 above). The ACM is responsible for ensuring that certification applications
are available for audit purposes.
10. Acquisition Career Management Information System (ACMIS). ACMIS will be
he official system of records for the FAC-C program for all civilian agencies and will
support the application process. However, agencies must maintain supplemental records
for quality assurance (e.g., copies of course certificates, etc.). FAI is responsible for
managing ACMIS and will issue guidance, as necessary, to support ACMIS
implementation.

8

11. Information Contact. Questions regarding this program should be directed to
Lesley A. Field, Office of Federal Procurement Policy (lfield@omb.eop.gov), or call
(202) 395-7579.
12. Effective Date. This program is effective January 20, 2006.

9

APPENDIX A
Guidance on Meeting the Business Course Requirements for the
Contract Specialist (GS-1102) Qualification Standard
Below are types of courses that generally satisfy the Qualification Standard requiremen
for 24-semester hours (or equivalent) of study from an accredited institution of higher
education in any of the following disciplines: accounting, business, finance, law,
contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative
methods, or organization and management. Additional information about accreditation
can be found on: ope.ed.gov/accreditation.
The following is based on guidance provided by the Defense Acquisition University to
he defense workforce and lists subject areas identified by the American Council on
Education for each of the business disciplines listed above. Although not an exhaustive
list, this guidance should be used by civilian agencies to determine if certain courses
provide enough business instruction to count toward the 24-semester hour business
requirement. ACMs should work with their human resources departments to ensure a
consistent interpretation of which types of courses should count toward the requirement.
BUSINESS/MANAGEMENT
## DISCIPLINE
Accounting

AMERICAN COUNCIL ON
## EDUCATION SUBJECT AREA
Cost Accounting Standards

Business Finance

Business Communications
Business and Personnel
Business Statistics
Cost Analysis
Financial Cost Managemen
Financial Planning and Analysis
Inventory Managemen
Resource Planning
Risk Analysis

Contracts

Acquisition Contracting
Acquisition Managemen
Business Communications in Contracting
Writing
Business Contract Law
Contract Administration
Contract Law
Contract Managemen
Contract Pricing and Negotiation
Contracting Managemen
Cost & Price Analysis
Government Contracting

10

BUSINESS/MANAGEMENT
## DISCIPLINE

AMERICAN COUNCIL ON
## EDUCATION SUBJECT AREA
Government Contract Law
Procuremen
Procurement and Contracting
Procurement Managemen

Economics

Cost and Price Analysis
Cost Analysis
Economic Analysis
Economic Principles and Decision Making
Economics and Financial Managemen
Economics

Industrial Management

Automated Systems in Logistics
Managemen
Civil Engineering Managemen
Environmental Managemen
Engineering and Analysis
Logistics Managemen
Logistics and Materiel Managemen
Manufacturing Managemen
Materiel Acquisition Process & Suppor
Systems
Property Disposal Managemen
Supply Managemen
Systems Engineering
Technology
Warehousing Operations

Law

Commercial or Business Contracts
Contract Law

Organization & Management

Business Administration
Advanced Management (Math)
Business
Business Managemen
Business and Personnel Managemen
Computer Programming
Computer Programming & Systems
Developmen
Computer Sciences, Data Processing
Data Entry and Automated Systems Inpu
General Managemen
Human Resource Developmen
Leadership and Group Decision Process

11

BUSINESS/MANAGEMENT
## DISCIPLINE

AMERICAN COUNCIL ON
## EDUCATION SUBJECT AREA
Management Science
Management & Leadership
Managerial Analysis
Manpower Managemen
Materiel Managemen
Methods of Adult Education
Organizational Behavior
Personnel Administration
Principles of Managemen
Quality and Reliability Assurance
Research and Development Managemen
Strategic Managemen
Survey of Program Operations

Purchasing

Basic Purchasing

Quantitative Methods

Business Statistics
Computer Science
Decision Risk Analysis
Operations Research
Probability Statistics
Quantitative Analysis
Statistics

12

APPENDIX B
Guidance on Meeting Continuous Learning Points Requirements
These guidelines are generally based on DOD’s requirements for achieving continuous
learning points (CLPs). Agencies have flexibility in assigning points and ACMs and/or
supervisors, as appropriate, should work with employees to identify appropriate
opportunities. Below is guidance on how training, professional activities, education, and
experience can be used to meet the CLP requirements. All activities must be job-related.
A. Training
1) Completing awareness training. Periodically agencies conduct briefing sessions to
acquaint the workforce with new or changed policy. Generally, no testing or assessmen
of knowledge gained is required.
2) Completing learning modules and training courses. These may be formal or informal
offerings from a recognized training organization, including in-house training
course/sessions, which include some form of testing/assessment for knowledge gained.
3) Performing Self-Directed Study. An individual can keep current or enhance his or her
capabilities through a self-directed study program agreed to by the supervisor.
4) Teaching. Employees are encouraged to share their knowledge and insights with others
hrough teaching of courses or learning modules. Teaching is also a part of the
Professional Activities category.
5) Mentoring. Helping others to learn and become more productive workers or managers
benefits the agency and the individuals involved. Mentoring is also a part of the
experience category.
B. Professional Activities
1) Participating in Organization Management. Membership alone in a professional
organization will not be considered as fulfilling continuous learning requirements, bu
participation in the organization leadership will. This includes holding elected/appointed
positions, committee leadership roles, or running an activity for an organization that you
are permitted to join under current ethics law and regulation. The employee must firs
ensure that participating in the management of an organization is allowed by the agency.
2) Attending/Speaking/Presenting at Professional Seminars/Symposia/Conferences.
Employees can receive points for attending professional seminars or conferences that are
job related. However, the supervisor needs to determine that the individual learned
something meaningful from the experience. Because significant effort is involved in
preparing and delivering presentations, credit should be given for each hour invested in
he preparation and presentation.

13

3) Publishing. Writing articles related to acquisition for publication generally meets the
criteria for continuous learning. Points will be awarded only in the year published.
Compliance with agency publication policy is required.
4) Participating in Workshops. Points should be awarded for workshops with planned
learning outcomes.
C. Education
1) Formal training. ACMs and supervisors should use Continuing Education Units
(CEUs) as a guide for assigning points for formal training programs that award CEUs.
The CEUs can be converted to points at 10 CLP points per CEU.
2) Formal academic programs. For formal academic programs offered by educational
institutions, each semester hour is equal to one CEU. A three-hour credit course would be
worth three CEUs and 30 CLP points, assuming that it is applicable to the acquisition
function.
## CREDITABLE ACTIVITIES
Academic Courses:
Quarter Hour
Semester Hour
Continuing Education Unit (CEU)
Equivalency Exams
Training Courses/Modules:
DAU Courses/Modules
• Awareness Briefing/Training—no
esting/assessment associated
• Continuous Learning Modules—
esting/assessment associated
Other Functional Training
Leadership or Other Training
Equivalency Exams
Professional Activities:
Professional Exam/License/Certificate
Teaching/Lecturing
Symposia/Conference Presentations
Workshop Participation
Symposia/Conference Attendance
Publications

POINT CREDIT (see note)

10 per Quarter Hour
10 per Semester Hour
10 per CEU
Same points as awarded for the course
10 per CEU (see DAU catalog) or:
• .5 point per hour of instruction
• 1 point per hour of instruction
1 point per hour of instruction
1 point per hour of instruction
Same points as awarded for the course
10-30 points
2 points per hour; maximum of 20 points
per year
2 points per hour; maximum of 20 points
per year
1 point per hour; maximum of 8 points per
day and 20 points per year
.5 point per hour; maximum of 4 points per
day and 20 points per year
10 to 40 points

14

Note - All activities may earn points only in the year accomplished, awarded or
published.
D. Experience
Experience includes on-the-job experiential assignments, and intra/interorganizational
rotational career broadening and developmental experiences. While agencies can use
discretion in arriving at a reasonable point value to be awarded for rotational and
developmental assignments, a sliding scale is recommended. Suggested points for such
assignments are in the table below.
The assumption is that longer assignments are more beneficial than shorter assignments.
The supervisor may feel that an individual may deserve more or less than the values
shown. In determining the points for a rotational/developmental assignment, the
supervisor should consider both the long-term benefit to the agency, and the immediate
benefit to the supervisor’s organization and the workforce member. For example, a
second rotational assignment of the same sort would be less valuable than a different type
of rotational assignment.
When experience or other non-assessed activities are to be used to earn CLPs, certain
principles should be followed. Supervisors and employees should pre-define, as closely
as possible, the tasks to be accomplished, expected outcomes, and the learning
opportunities. If it is an assignment, the individual should be mentored during the
assignment. Accomplishment of a product, such as a briefing, a project design, a report,
or other work product that shows the learning attained, is desirable. Sharing the
knowledge and experience gained and the product with others in the organization is
encouraged.
## CREDITABLE ACTIVITIES
Experience:
On-the-Job Experiential Assignments
Integrated Product Team (IPT)/
Special Project Leader
IPT/Special Project Member
Mentor
Assignment Length (Rotational
Assignments or Training with Industry):
12 Months
9 Months
6 Months
3 Months
2 Months
1 Month

POINT CREDIT
Maximum of 20 points per year
Maximum of 15 points per year
Maximum of 10 points per years
Maximum of 5 points per year
Recommended Points:
80
60
40
15
10
5

15

