# 1886_Document_1886

_Converted from PDF using pdftotext_

SAMPLE R&D PWS
HELPFUL HINT: Please note that OFPP has issued guidance stating that the
first several phases of R&D work are excluded from having to use a performance-based approach. However, this template provides some guidance on how
an R&D performance work statement (PWS) could be written.
SECTION C – PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT
## BACKGROUND
In this section, describe the nature of the project being investigated and the reason for the
research effort. This should include a problem statement like the one illustrated below.
Currently, transportation departments across the country are finding that the current mixture
being used to create asphalt is breaking down more quickly than it should. This degradation is
costing state highway agencies to replace road surfaces more frequently than planned and the
cost of doing so has sky-rocketed. Development of new test procedures and mixture design
methods is crucial to the effective implementation of new technologies to the state highway
agencies (SHAs) and industry.
The purpose of this contract is to obtain capable and knowledgeable staff to conduct a national
effort including data collection, workshops, and technical assistance in order to evaluate,
validate, showcase, and promote the use of existing as well as new technology as it relates to
asphalt materials, mix and pavement design, and construction quality control. To perform these
asks, [agency] maintains a stationary asphalt binder laboratory and a mobile asphalt mix tes
laboratory. Central to this effort would be assisting the SHAs to evaluate new equipment and
est procedures on active project sites.
## CONTRACT OBJECTIVE
The objective of this contract is to obtain technical assistance for the program discussed above.
## SCOPE OF WORK
The Contractor shall provide all personnel, supervision and other items and services necessary to
provide non-personal technical assistance to the program office as defined in this PWS. The
Contractor shall perform to the standards in this contract.
## DELINEATION OF CONTRACTOR TASKS
1.

FIELD WORK
The Contractor shall provide sufficient manpower to perform all asphalt related tests on
active project sites as specified in the testing plan developed by the contractor and
approved by the Contracting Officers Technical Representative (COTR).

1.1

Test Plan. The Contractor shall develop a test plan based on the testing needs of the
COTR and the requesting agency where the field work is to be performed. The details of
he testing plan will require the Contractor to visit the requesting agency’s place of
business and discuss the specific testing needs over the telephone. Upon written approval
of the test plan by the COTR, the Contractor shall ensure that all equipment required in
he test plan is available in the labs and is in working order. The scheduled start of field
work shall be mutually agreed upon by the COTR, requesting agency and Contractor. As
a minimum each test plan should include the following routine asphalt tests:
Asphalt Binder Tests
a.
b.
c.
d.

e.

Penetration of asphalt cement.
Viscosity of asphalt, kinematic, and vacuum capillary.
Asphalt Specific Gravity Test.
SHRP Asphalt Binder Specification Test:
Bending Beam Rheometer
Dynamic Shear Rheometer
Direct Tension Tes
Pressure Aging of Asphalt Binder
Asphalt Viscosity using the Rotational Programmable Viscometer
Superpave Asphalt Binder and Mix Database.

Asphalt Mixture Tests
a.
b.
c.
d.

e.
f.
g.
h.
1.2

Flow and stability.
Maximum specific gravity of bituminous mixtures.
Vacuum extraction of asphalt from bituminous paving mixes.
Compaction of bituminous paving mixtures utilizing the Standard Marshall
Hammer, Modified Marshall Hammer (with rotating base), Texas Gyratory
Compactor, and the SHRP Gyratory Compactor.
Bulk specific gravity of compacted bituminous mixtures.
Aggregate gradations, specific gravities, and adsorption including equipment such
as CoreLok and SSDetect among other methods.
Asphalt stripping and water sensitivity tests of compacted bituminous paving
mixtures (AASHTO T 283).
SHRP procedure for aging test on bituminous paving mixtures.

Project Coordination. The Contractor shall make all necessary arrangements, in a
professional manner, with the requesting agency concerning schedule and MAMTL
activities. The Contractor shall also maintain a log of all verbal and written
communications with requesting agencies. The Contractor shall provide a detailed
itinerary to the COTR 14 days prior to departure of the mobile asphalt mix testing
laboratory (MAMTL) for a project. The Contractor shall be cognizant that other

Contractors are engaged in similar work, requiring close cooperation. The Contractor
for this contract shall cooperate with all other Contractors and adjust the MAMTL’s work
schedule to avoid conflicts with the other Contractor’s performance and work schedules.
1.3

Transport of MAMTL to/from project. The Contractor shall prepare and transport the
MAMTL using the tractor provided by FHWA to the agreed upon field projects. The
Contractor shall adhere to all Federal and State regulations concerning the transport of
he MAMTL, which includes as a minimum that all drivers have a valid Commercial
Drivers License (CDL).

1.4

Field Testing. The Contractor shall coordinate their activities with all parties involved
with the project and perform all testing included in the approved testing plan. The
Contractor shall perform all asphalt tests in accordance with applicable American
Association of State Highway Transportation Officials (AASHTO) or American Society
for Testing and Materials (ASTM). Neither the Contractor nor his employees shall
release information obtained during the testing without the express written permission of
he COTR.
The Contractor shall demonstrate and explain any testing conducted to the requesting
agency on an as needed basis.
The Contractor shall hold a close out meeting with the participating agency to review the
results of the testing performed within 45 days of the MAMTL leaving the jobsite.

1.5

Field Reports. The Contractor shall submit a draft report to the COTR within 15 days
after completion of Close-Out meeting. Each report shall contain as a minimum the
following information:
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
f.
g.
h.
i.
j.
k.

The agency and location where the field work was conducted.
List of personnel and contact information from participating agency directly
involved with field work.
Overview of project.
Time spent at the location and resources utilized.
Problems encountered during the assignment and recommended solutions.
Tests performed and results obtained.
Evaluation of performance and aggregate test results.
Recommendations to improve the equipment and/or test procedures.
Graphical plots representing test results and discussion of data analysis.
Conclusions.
Appendix including raw test data and detailed calculations or computations.

The COTR will review and provide written comments within 10 days after receipt of the
draft report. The Contractor shall revise the document to reflect the COTR’s comments
and submit the final field report within 7 days for acceptance by COTR.

2.

EQUIPMENT AND TEST LABORATORY (“lab”) MAINTENANCE

2.1

Equipment Inventory. The Contractor shall assume responsibility and maintain all
equipment and material furnished by the Government. Equipment inventory lists turned
over to the Contractor shall be updated semi-annually. The Contractor shall give an
electronic copy as well as a hard copy of the updated inventory list to the COTR after
every update. The Contractor shall also maintain a list of expendable supplies available,
such as cylinder molds or neoprene pads, and provide a copy to the COTR on a monthly
basis.
The Contractor shall be responsible for requesting parts and materials needed in the
performance of this contract. The Contractor shall provide part numbers, a description of
he service or materials required and the estimated cost from at least three vendors.
Supplies needed, shall be submitted in writing to the COTR a minimum of 45 days prior
o their intended use so as not to delay scheduled work.

2.2

Preventive Maintenance. The Contractor shall be responsible for establishing and
implementing a comprehensive preventive maintenance (PM) program covering the labs,
all applicable equipment associated with the labs, the tractor used to transport the
MAMTL, and the generator attached to the tractor. The PM program consists primarily
of inspection, cleaning, lubrication, adjustment, calibration, and minor part and
component replacement (e.g., filters, o-rings, belts, cables, fluids, oil, electrical
connections, grease). The PM program is required to minimize malfunction, breakdown,
and deterioration of equipment. The PM program shall also document in writing all
repairs required to bring the equipment up to the manufacturer’s operating standards and
provide a copy to the COTR.
This program shall include at a minimum, equipment priority, frequency, description of
he maintenance to be performed, and an annual PM schedule for all equipment included
in the program. The PM performed shall be as recommended by the original equipmen
manufacturer.
The Contractor shall submit his proposed PM program to the COTR for approval within
60 days of the contract start date, and annually thereafter. The Contractor shall be
responsible for updating this program as necessary to reflect the addition, replacement or
removal of equipment and furnishing a copy of the updates to the COTR.
If the Contractor detects that any Government equipment or component being maintained
under the contract is in need of reconditioning, repair, replacement (or disposal), details
including cost shall be submitted in writing to the COTR. The Contractor shall no
undertake or perform any reconditioning, repair or replacement of equipment withou
prior authorization from the COTR. The Contractor shall solicit quotations from at leas
hree vendors for reconditioning, repair, or replacement in excess of $2,500.
All costs of maintenance of the tractor and laboratory trailer shall be borne by [agency]

except where the need for maintenance is caused by the negligence of the Contractor's
employees.
2.3

Labs, Tractor, and Generator Appearance. The labs, tractor, and generator shall be
washed, as a minimum, on a quarterly basis and/or 24 hours prior to being on display a
conferences, seminars or other public events. The interior of the labs shall be kept in a
clean and safe working condition at all times.
The interior of the labs shall also be cleaned 24 hours prior to being on display at public
events. The entire floor surface, including corners, behind doors and under furniture shall
be kept free of food, drinks, litter, dust and debris. Windows shall be cleaned monthly
and kept free of film, dirt, smudges, hand prints, water or other foreign matter. The walls,
counter tops and cabinets shall be cleaned weekly and kept free of film, food, drinks, dirt,
smudges, hand prints, or other foreign matter. The laboratory should be kept free of food
at all times during display at public events. The Contractor shall replace burned out or
flickering fluorescent tubes with the same type, wattage and voltage as those removed.
Fire extinguishers shall be fully charged at all times.

Rust and Corrosion. Clean rusted and corroded areas on tractor, labs, and generator as required.
Prime the cleaned surfaces and paint using a high quality primer and paint suitable for surface
being painted. Paint colors shall be matched as closely as possible to original or previous colors,
or as otherwise approved by the COTR. Equipment identification data shall not be obscured or
covered up with paint.

3.

TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER

3.1.

Equipment Demonstrations and Requests for Information. The Contractor shall
provide technical assistance to interested agencies. Technical assistance can take the form
of answering questions from email and phone calls within or outside [agency]. Provide
literature based on requests for information within the scope of the project. Ship
equipment to requesting agency and provide hands-on training. The Contractor shall
provide a brief written report for each site visit documenting the participating agency,
contacts and phone numbers for personnel who worked with the equipment, and
summary to the COTR within 7 days of the visit.
Technical Presentations. The Contractor shall develop and make professional
presentations at seminars, conferences, workshops and/or meetings on an as-needed
basis. Within 7 days after each presentation, the Contractor shall forward to the COTR a
brief written report of the visit. Each report shall include as a minimum the date and
duration of the visit, the purpose, audience, and location of the presentation, and a brief
summary of activities and any recommendations and/or observations.

3.2

3.3

Technical Publications. The Contractor shall write technical, professional quality,
articles suitable for publications, newsletters, briefing papers, brochures, and develop

workshop modules on an as needed basis.
It is anticipated that these article(s) will address the lab program activities, asphal
durability and performance issues, implementation activities and other asphalt related
activities. Prepare and conduct training classes and or workshops dealing with asphal
materials, mix design procedures, construction, QA/QC testing requirements, and asphal
portion (materials characterization) of mechanistic-empirical pavement design, use of
nondestructive and innovative test procedures and equipment.
4.0

Additional Development Assignments. Some additional development assignments are
envisioned to occur within the duration of the contract.
The type of assignments that are envisioned fall into the following categories:
•

Evaluation of mechanistic-empirical pavement analysis as part of NCHRP 1-37A
Design Guide (TEXT DELETED)

•

Superpave database (TEXT DELETED)

•

Support AASHTO and NCHRP (TEXT DELETED)

PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS [IN A TRUE PWS, AGENCIES SHOULD CONSIDER
LISTING ONLY THOSE KEY PERSONNEL (OFFERORS SHOULD PROPOSE THOSE
KEY PERSONNEL) THEY THINK ARE APPROPRIATE, LIKE THE PROJECT OR
PROGRAM MANAGER. OTHERWISE, IT IS UP TO EACH OFFEROR TO PROPOSE
THE SKILLS AND SKILL MIX TO DELIVER THE REQUIRED RESULTS. IF THERE
ARE LICENSING OR CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS, LIST THEM IN THIS
SECTION.]

PERFORMANCE STANDARDS & QUALITY ASSURANCE PLAN
The following table contains:
1.

The PWS requirements that the Government will inspect. The absence of any contract
requirements from the following table shall not detract from its enforceability nor limi
he rights or remedies of the Government under any other provisions of the contact,
including the clause entitled, “Inspection of Services.”

2.

The performance standards for each listed requirement. The performance standard
represents the minimum requirement that the Government requires the Contractor to
achieve.

3.

The acceptable quality level that specifies an allowable deviation from the performance

standard for that service to be found acceptable.
4.

The financial incentives and penalties of this performance-based acquisition. Contractor
performance that meets the acceptable quality level for each standard will be deemed
acceptable performance by the Government. To earn incentive, the Contractor mus
exceed the quality level specified for a standard. Performance that fails to meet the
acceptable standard will result in the assessment of a penalty.

5.

The surveillance methods (located under Section E of the contract) the Government will
use to evaluate the Contractor’s performance for the listed requirements.

PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY (PRS)
1.

List the PWS requirements that the government will inspect. The absence of any contract
requirements from the PRS shall not detract from its enforceability nor limit the rights or
remedies of the government under any other provisions of the contract, including the
clause entitled “Inspection of Services.”

2.

Define the standard of performance for each listed service.

3.

Set forth the allowable deviation from the standard performance for that service to be
found acceptable. Performance that exceeds the standard will be rewarded in accordance
with Section H - Special Contract Requirements, Award Fee Evaluation Plan Procedures.

4.

Set forth the surveillance methods (located under Section E of the contract) the
Government will use to evaluate the Contractor’s performance for the listed tasks.

Definitions
Accuracy:

Data or facts presented can be verified with a minimal amount of errors.

Completeness:

All necessary information is included, minimum omissions,
comprehensive.

Professional:

Conform to the technical or ethical standards of a profession. Display the
conduct, appearance, and qualities that characterize or mark a profession.
Possess skill, experience and competence in a profession. Deals
effectively in group discussions with sensitive or controversial matters.

Quality:

Deliverables use clear, concise language, are well laid out and adequately
describe with sufficient detail the requirements. High level of detail is
maintained during all aspects of contract and are documented in writing as
appropriate. High standard of work maintained at all times. Produce high
quality, precise, well organized work with minimum rewrites and editorial
reviews.

Day:

Where acceptable quality levels are defined in days, a day is defined as
weekday (Monday through Friday), not including recognized governmen
holidays.

[Agency] will evaluate Contractor performance using the following performance measurement
methods against the following performance standards. Contractor performance will be rewarded
or penalized in accordance with the following incentives:

PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY
NOTE: The standards below apply to work performed under Tasks 1-3.

PERFORMANCE
## REQUIREMENTS

PERFORMANCE STANDARD

1. Develop test plan,
coordinate schedule,
ransport MAMTL to
field project, provide
asphalt testing suppor
and document results.

Timeliness & Accuracy: Develop appropriate test plan based
on job requirements 30 days prior to scheduled start of field
work as determined by COTR. Ensure equipment required in
est plan is available and in working order 90% of the time.
Coordinate schedule for field work with requesting agency 30
days prior to departure as mutually agreed upon by Contractor
and COTR. Maintain log of verbal and written communications
with requesting agency. Provide COTR with detailed itinerary
14 days prior to departure as determined by COTR. Pack
MAMTL, ensure MAMTL and tractor are road worthy 3 days
prior to departure, and transport MAMTL to specified location
safely and in a professional manner within 24 hours of mutually
agreed upon time. Coordinate with all parties involved with
project, including holding kickoff meeting and conducting
subsequent activities. Perform tests included in approved tes
plan and hold a close out meeting with the participating agency
o review the results of the testing performed within 45 days of
he MAMTL leaving the jobsite. Perform analysis on data from
Superpave performance tests within 10 days of completing
esting and maintain Superpave and performance test database
and update within 7 days of leaving project site. Provide COTR
draft report within 15 days of the completion of Close-Ou
meeting and provide final report within 7 days of receiving
COTR’s comments.

ACCEPTABLE
## QUALITY LEVEL

93%

INCENTIVE/PENALTY

SURVEILLANCE
## METHOD

Incentive or penalty equal
o 4% of Contractor’s uni
price for six month
evaluation period.

100% inspection

2. Maintain
Government furnished
equipment and
expendable supplies
and establish and
maintain an inventory.
Develop a preventive
maintenance program
for equipment, MATL,
ractor, and generator.
Demonstrate upkeep of
labs’ appearance.

Completeness & Timeliness: Provide COTR an electronic copy
of equipment inventory semi-annually & expendable supplies
monthly, as well as written list of any parts or materials needed
a minimum of 45 days prior to intended use. Provide COTR
with proposed preventive maintenance program within 60 days
of contract award and annually thereafter. Perform preventive
maintenance inspections and/or repairs within 15 days of
approved recommended schedule & maintain log of all
preventive maintenance services performed. Wash exterior
surfaces, clean windows, clean interior of tractor and labs
(weekly), on a quarterly basis and/or 24 hours prior to
exhibition. Clean, prime and paint exterior of MATL, truck,
and generator as required.

95%

Incentive or penalty
equal to 3% of
Contractor’s unit price
for six month
evaluation period.

100% inspection

HELPFUL HINT: TIMELINESS AND ACCURACY ARE TWO THINGS THAT CAN BE MEASURED. HOWEVER, IF THE FOCUS IS ON
RESULTS, THE STANDARDS SHOULD BE TIED TO ACHIEVING THOSE RESULTS. DID WE FIND A BETTER MIXTURE FOR THE
ASPHALT, THAT IS COST-EFFECTIVE AND CAN BE UTILIZED BY THE SHA’s?

3. Provide technical
assistance to interested
agencies through phone
calls, literature, site
visits, equipment loans,
echnical presentations
and technical
publications.

Timeliness & Accuracy: Loan available equipment to
requesting agency within 14 days of request or equipmen
availability. Maintain up to date record of all equipment on
loan. Provide available literature to requesting agencies within
7 days of receiving request. Develop professional presentations
at least 14 days in advance of the presentation for the COTR to
review and provide brief written report to COTR within 7 days
after each presentation. Prepare and submit technical
publications for a mutually agreed upon due date.

90%

Incentive or penalty
equal to 3% of
Contractor’s unit price
for six month
evaluation period.

Random inspection

The FHWA will evaluate the Contractor’s performance under Tasks 1-3 (CLIN 0001 and
CLIN 0002) against the performance standards described above every six months and
provide a detailed performance evaluation of the Contactor’s overall performance during
hat period.
Incentive/Penalty
The Government’s evaluation of the Contractor’s performance for the 6 month period will
include a determination of the incentive or penalty assessed for that period. If an incentive is
earned, the Contractor may request payment of the incentive on its monthly invoice submission
for the month immediately following notification of the evaluation. Any penalty assessed for the
period shall be deducted from the unit price on the monthly invoice submission for the month
immediately following notification of the evaluation.
Contractor Supervision
The Contractor shall provide total supervision of its staff. Government personnel are no
authorized or permitted to supervise any Contractor personnel. The Contractor’s Program
Manager, shall communicate with the COTR to determine the Government’s work requirements
as set forth in the Statement of Work and shall assure that these requirements are fulfilled. In the
event the designated Program Manager is incapacitated due to illness or injury or otherwise is
removed by the Contractor during the contract performance, replacement of the incumben
Program Manager shall be subject to the prior written approval of the Contracting Officer.
Review and Approval of Contractor Performance
The COTR will review the completeness, accuracy, and quality of all products completed by the
Contractor. Before final acceptance will be made, the COTR will make an inspection of the
product and see to it that tests and measurements were performed in accordance with accepted
laboratory procedures. All computations, such as trend analysis and uncertainty calculation, shall
be fully documented.
## GENERAL INFORMATION
Operations: [LOCATIONS AND HOURS OF OPERATION LISTED HERE.]
Travel: All travel must be approved by the COTR and if approved for Governmen
reimbursement will be paid for in accordance with Government Travel Regulations in effect a
he time of travel. No travel or per diem will be paid when the employee is working within 50
miles of his/her home.

