# 1894_Scope_of_Work_for_Phase_II_Environmental_Site_Asse

_Converted from PDF using pdftotext_

Scope of Work for
The Development of
Closure Plan and Sampling of Open Burning Grounds a
Sunflower Army Ammunition Plan
Layaway of Industrial Facilities Project 5988634-1

SITE LOCATION AND DESCRIPTION: The Old Burning Ground (Solid
Waste Management Unit, SWMU, 23) is located in the westcentral portion of Sunflower Army Ammunition Plant. The site
is located 2,400 feet from the west boundary, and 7,800 from
he south boundary of the Government property. The site
consists of a topographically level (clay) pad approximately
130 feet by 340 feet surrounded by an earthen berm. The
entire area is enclosed by a cyclone/chain link-type security
fence. Within the earthen berm area are burning pans which
were used to burn excess propellant; they are 40 inches by
120 inches by 4 inches deep. The area surrounding the
Burning Ground is mostly grass-covered.
OPERATIONAL HISTORY AND WASTE CHARACTERISTICS: The Burning
Ground was used for disposal of propellant by open burning in
burning pans from 1985 through 1993. The stainless steel pan
containers were constructed in 1985. The quantities and
ypes of propellant burned on the site are summarized a
enclosure (encl) 1. The site is currently idle, and has been
since 1993.
1.

Introduction:

l.1. Scope: This is a performance based Scope of Work for a
Phase II Environmental Site Assessment (ESA). This scope is
intended as a framework for preparing a Phase II, ESA and
conducting a physical sampling with respect to the potential
presence of a range of contaminants. A Phase II ESA (often
referred to as a “Closure Plan") defines what contaminants
exist, the range of migration, and proposes closure
activities where and if constituent concentration is above
regulated levels considering future site use. A Phase II ESA
also defines the condition which regulatory agencies of
primacy will accept as a "clean closure." The proposed
ESA/physical sampling must gather appropriate
characterization data which will allow the Army to proceed
with closure protocols and procedures that will ensure
compliance with the closure performance standards of Title

40, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 265, Subpart G,
including but not limited to 265.111.
This ESA will evaluate a parcel of property with recognized
environmental conditions, as defined in ASTM Standard
Practices E1527-94.
The successful offeror will be required to submit,
coordinate, and obtain approval of this Phase II ESA with the
regulatory agencies of primacy.
This scope is intended for gathering high quality information
about recognized environmental conditions.
1.2. History Description of Site including synopsis of Phase
I ESA - Historical documentation, operational procedures,
previous closure plans, Remedial Investigation Plan, Notices
of Deficiency, regulator correspondence, and all background
information and references will be made available to the
contractor by AMSIO-IRI, or through a support contract with
Alliant Techsystems. A listing of the available/previous
investigative information is provided at encl 2.
1.3. Objectives - The primary objectives of an ESA
submission are to evaluate known environmental conditions
identified in the Phase I ESA (RCRA Facility Investigation)
by (1) providing information regarding the vertical and
lateral extent of contamination, (2) providing adequate
subsurface investigation so as to fully delineate subsurface
impacts, and provide risk-based assessment and/or detailed
corrective action measures in order to subsequently complete
closure plan/post-closure care plan and achieve a “clean
closure” as appropriate. This document is intended to
provide guidance for investigating recognized environmental
conditions based on technically sound data and provide the
level of inquiry necessary to implement remedial solutions
for this site. The contractor shall use creative ideas
writing this ESA Phase II for closure in order that the RCRA
site closure is coordinated with the CERCLA activities so
hat the areas to be remediated under RCRA shall be clearly
defined to contamination which was generated by RCRA
activity.
1.4. Performance Period - The successful offeror shall
complete the Phase II ESA 6 months after contract award.

1.5.

Cost Proposal, Schedule and Reporting Requirements:

1.5.1. Schedule: As part of the offerors cost proposal
submission, the prospective bidder will identify the manhours, materials, and subcontract costs/services required to
accomplish the tasks outlined in this SOW. A proposed
schedule of activities will also be provided to identify how
he offeror will meet the performance period requirements
specified in paragraph 1.4. The proposal schedule will
define the time frame required by the independent tasks
outlined in paragraph 3.0, and any major subordinate tasks
(similar to a Work Breakdown Structure Time line). The
agreed to schedule will become the basis for the monthly
status reports generated by the successful offeror.
1.5.2. Monthly Status Reports: The successful offeror will
provide a monthly status report to AMSIO-IRI. The monthly
report will identify the initial planned costs and schedule
summary (as agreed to in negotiations). The report will
rack actual funds vouchered to track the costs expended, and
identify the value of work performed to track schedule
deviations. The cost portion of the report will use earned
value concepts to determine value of the work actually
performed. The report format will be similar to that as
provided at enclosure 3.
1.6. Organization of this SOW - Section l describes the
scope of the associated Phase II ESA. Section 2 discusses
he significance of the data generated and potential future
uses of land. Section 3 contains the objectives and
components of Phase II ESA. Section 4 is about the Work
Plan. Section 5 discusses Investigative Activities. Section
6 (Evaluation of Data), Section 7 (Interpretation of Data),
and Section 8 (Report Preparation) collectively constitute
he body of this scope. Appendix A contains definitions and
acronyms. Appendix B contains a Table of Contents for the
Phase II ESA Report.
2.

Inspection And Acceptance Criteria:

2.1. Acceptance Criteria: At a minimum, in order to be
acceptable to the Government, the final Phase II report mus
contain the following test data and documentation:

a. Determine the types, quantities, concentrations,
extent and configuration of contamination.
b. Contain the necessary data and compile the ASTM
E-1739 Risk Based Corrective Action Plan or the Risk Based
Corrective Action Plan specified by the Jurisdictional
Regulatory Authority and compile to submit to the regulators.
c. Contain the needed information for a Phase III
remediation and/or Monitoring Plan to satisfy the
requirements of 40 CFR Section 265 and the jurisdictional
regulators.
d. Provide sufficient hydro-geologic characterization
for minimal transport/fate modeling to satisfy the
requirements of 40 CFR Section 265 and the jurisdictional
regulators.
e. Provide submission to and approval by the regulators
of jurisdiction for this ESA Phase II closure plan including
he sampling plan and the subsequent remediation plan/pos
closure sampling (if required).
f. Determine and document, to the approval of the
regulators of primacy, the ecological receptors and impacts,
or lack thereof. This documentation shall be submitted to
he Contracting Officer (CO) as outlined in paragraph 10.
The CO will then forward this documentation to AMSIO-IRI for
inspection. Final acceptance shall be by the CO.
2.2. Principles - The following principles are an integral
part of this scope and are intended to be referred to in
resolving any ambiguity or exercising such discretion as is
accorded the Government or the contractors.
2.2.1. Elimination of Uncertainty - No ESA can eliminate all
uncertainty. Furthermore, any sample, either surface or
subsurface, taken for laboratory analysis may or may not be
representative of a larger population. Professional judgmen
and interpretation are inherent in the process and
uncertainty is inevitable. Additional investigation may be
able to reduce the uncertainty but it can never be
eliminated.
2.2.2.

Chemical Analysis Error - Chemical testing methods

have inherent uncertainties and limitations. The successful
offeror shall build quality control and quality assurance
ests into the work plan, as outlined in Section 4.8. The
environmental professional shall require the laboratory to
alert it to any potential or actual problems experienced, or
non-routine events which may have occurred during the
esting, so that such problems can be considered in
evaluating the data.
2.2.3. Level of Investigation - ESAs do not generally
require an exhaustive investigation of environmental
conditions on property. There is a point at which the cos
of information obtained and the time required to obtain i
outweigh the usefulness of the information and, in fact, may
be a material detriment to the orderly completion of
ransactions. If hazardous substance or petroleum releases
are confirmed on a parcel of property, the extent of further
investigation is related to the degree of uncertainty that is
acceptable to the user and the regulators of jurisdiction.
2.2.4. Comparison With Subsequent Inquiry - Phase II ESAs
should be evaluated based on the reasonableness of judgments
made at the time and under the circumstances in which they
were made.
2.2.5. Data Usability - Measurements and sampling data only
represent the site conditions at the time of data collection.
Therefore, the usability of data collected as part of a Phase
II ESA may have a finite lifetime depending on the
application and use being made of the data. The successful
offeror should evaluate the validity of previously generated
data for any subsequent use beyond the original purpose for
which it was collected.

3. Phase II ESA Components - The components of a Phase II
ESA are as listed below. These components and specification
are provided for information purposes:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Work Plan Development
Investigative Activities
Evaluation and Presentation of Data and Developmen
of Risk Based Assessmen
Presentation of Findings and Conclusions
Remediation Plan

4.

Work Plan Development:

4.1. A plan shall be developed by the environmental
professional to establish the methods and work tasks tha
achieve the user's Phase II objectives. The work plan should
provide the rationale for planned sampling locations and
esting parameters along with identification of selected
methodologies and appropriate QA/QC measures. The work plan
may provide for minor field modifications where appropriate.
The work plan should be organized to facilitate the orderly,
objective-focused implementation of the plan in the field.
In general, there are seven main tasks in developing a work
plan, as described in the sections 4.2 through 4.8.
4.2. Review Existing Information - Readily available
existing information should be reviewed to identify or
establish those characteristics of the site and its vicinity
which:
a.

Constitute a recognized environmental condition.

b. Affect the potential distribution and mobility of
hazardous substances or petroleum products in structures, on
he ground, in ground water, in soils, or in surface water
and environs at the site.
c. Affect the manner in which the presence of hazardous
substances or petroleum products may be investigated. The
review of readily available existing information should serve
as the basis for evaluating the likely distribution of
hazardous substances or petroleum products at the site,
identifying appropriate sampling locations, and selecting
appropriate sampling and analytical methodologies.
Information reviewed during work plan development should
include all readily available information identified as
required by ASTM E1527-94 or E1528 within the approximate
minimum search distance for each REC being investigated.
Some but not all of these documents are identified at encl 2.
If existing information indicates a reasonable potential for
hazardous substances or petroleum products to migrate onto
he property, or to migrate within soil, ground water,

surface water, or structures at the property, additional
information should be reviewed, including those physical
setting information sources identified as discretionary and
non-standard in ASTM E1527-94 or E1528. The environmental
professional may review additional sources of information as
is appropriate to the property, or as required by the
judgment of the environmental professional. Readily
available information may be gained in review of Phase I ESAs
conducted IAW ASTM E1527-94, or other ESAs or reports,
including a Transaction Screen conducted IAW ASTM E1528-93
where the information, in the judgment of the environmental
professional, can be reasonably relied upon. If, however,
information is not available in the form of a Phase I ESA, or
other reliable source, such information should be obtained in
accordance with ASTM E1527-94.
Information developed at this stage of the assessment may
eliminate recognized environmental conditions identified in a
Phase I ESA or Transaction Screen from further Phase II
investigation. The environmental professional’s judgment may
conclude the additional information adequately demonstrates
hat hazardous substances or petroleum products associated
with a previously identified REC are unlikely to be presen
at the property.
4.3. Potential Distributions of Contaminants - The
environmental professional shall interpret the possible
distributions and chemical phases of potential contaminants.
This requires that the environmental professional consider,
in a setting such as the property, the contaminan
properties, behaviors, and fate and transport characteristics
such that the work plan will address the relevant potential
environmental impairment issues.
4.4. Sampling Plan - A sampling program shall be designed
and implemented to provide collection of potentially
contaminated environmental media. Sample points will be
located where they are likely to occur, as determined
pursuant to the provisions of this Section.
4.5. Health and Safety Plan - The work plan shall include
personnel health and safety precautions to be followed IAW
applicable federal law or state or local equivalents and any
requirements imposed by the owner or occupant of the property
or by the user.

4.6. Chemical Testing Plan - The chemical testing program
shall be designed to detect the contaminants suspected to be
present in the samples collected in implementing Section 4.4
above. The chemical tests should be appropriate for
detecting the indicator constituents of the hazardous
substances and petroleum products identified in the review
performed under Section 4.2 above, recognizing the possible
chemical phases inferred in the work done under Section 4.3
above. The chemical testing program should include tests
which provide quality assurance (QA) and techniques which
provide quality control (QC) over the chemical analyses.
The environmental professional shall specify in advance the
analytical methods to be used as well as the requirements for
laboratory data deliverables (e.g., tabulated results,
individual analysis sheets, chromatograms, spike recoveries,
instrument calibration data, etc.) and quality control
information (i.e., project-specific or only laboratory batchspecific QC sample analysis).
An extensive body of methods is available for the analysis of
environmental samples gathered in the course of a Phase II
ESA. Several distinct compilations of methods for the
analysis of environmental samples have been developed,
principally by EPA and ASTM, for different purposes,
primarily for hazardous waste management, industrial and
municipal wastewater monitoring, investigation and cleanup of
potential Superfund sites, and monitoring of the public water
supply. An example is the compilation titled Test Methods
for Evaluating Solid Waste (SW-846) prepared by EPA. Each of
hese methods has particular benefits and limitations.
For each specific media and target analyte, a variety of
methods may be appropriate, depending upon the particular
circumstances. The environmental professional shall selec
methods for the analysis of samples giving consideration to
(l) the intended end-use of the resulting data, (2) the
user's data quality objectives, (3) the statutory,
regulatory, or policy framework applicable to the sample in
question, and (4) any limitations or allowances associated
with the level of effort as understood by the environmental
professional and user. The selected analytical method should
be appropriate for the sample medium, target analyte, and
detection limits and should result in data sufficient to
support conclusions regarding recognized environmental

conditions.
4.7.

Quality Assurance/Quality Control Procedures:

4.7.1. Appropriate quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC)
procedures shall be included in the Phase II ESA to allow for
assessment of the quality of the data collected. The QA/QC
measures may include, for example, written field sampling
protocol, instrument calibration, the preparation and
analysis of trip blanks, duplicate samples, and holding times
for sample analysis.
4.7.2. Any analytical laboratory used in the course of the
Phase II ESA shall have an established QA/QC program
sufficient to allow assessment of the precision and accuracy
of the data it generates. The environmental professional
shall verify the state certification or licensing of the
analytical laboratory where applicable or otherwise evaluate
he appropriateness of the QA/QC program of the analytical
laboratory prior to engaging its services.
5.
Investigative Activities: The investigative activities
o be conducted under the Phase II ESA may range from nonintrusive field screening methods to intrusive multi-media
sampling and laboratory analysis. This section references an
overview of recognized intrusive and non-intrusive site
investigation methodologies and common field screening
activities and analytical protocol. The selection of one or
a combination of these methods will be based on the stated
objectives of the user and the judgment of the environmental
professional. Appropriate QA/QC measures should be
implemented according to the work plan. Investigative
activities shall be statistically conclusive to ensure the
remediation is acceptable to the regulatory agency of
primacy.

5.l.

Field Screening Techniques:

5.1.1. Field screening techniques include methods of data
gathering which may result in real-time acquisition of data,
for the purpose of characterizing the physical attributes of
a site and for the assessment of the presence and a real
distribution of a specific chemical or chemical classes at a

sampling location. Chemical field screening techniques may
indicate the presence of a specific chemical or chemical
class in excess of a predetermined or legally required action
level. Field analytical methods include all chemical
analysis methods capable of providing chemical-specific
quantitative data in the field or non-laboratory setting.
Field screening and analytical techniques generally allow
rapid, multiple measurements at relatively low cost. Field
chemical screening and analytical methods generally have
higher detection limits and lower precision and accuracy
compared to laboratory analytical measurements because of
limitations imposed by making instruments portable and
greater difficulties in applying analytical QA/QC procedures
in the field.
5.1.2. Field screening sampling and analytical techniques
may be used in Phase II ESAs for: (a) Qualitative and semiquantitative confirmation of the presence of contaminants
constituting a REC, (b) Preliminary mapping of the area’s
distribution of contaminants, (c) Guiding the collection of
samples for more rigorous laboratory analysis, and (d)
Guiding the placement of permanent monitoring well
installations. The environmental professional will establish
standard procedures and protocols prior to the implementation
of field screening efforts.
5.1.3. Common field screening sampling methods that may be
employed in a Phase II ESA include sampling of soil, soil
gas, and ground water. Common chemical field screening and
analytical methods include use of ion-selective electrodes,
detection of volatile compounds using field gas
chromatograph, and detection of inorganic constituents and
semi-volatile organic chemicals using colorimetric we
chemistry methods, including enzyme immunoassay tests.
Section 5.1.5 and Section 12 in ASTM D5730, Quinlan Standards
and ASTM D5717, Standard Guide to Site Characteristics for
Environmental Purposes with Emphasis on Soil, Rock The Vadose
Zone and Ground Water, further address the use of field
screening methods. Field screening technologies continue to
evolve.

5.2.

Environmental Media Sampling:

5.2.1. The Phase II ESA requires environmental sampling with
field and/or laboratory analysis to determine whether
hazardous substances or petroleum products are present on
property. The selection of sampling locations and analytical
parameters should be consistent with the work plan developed
at the onset of the project. Any deviations from the work
plan should be noted and justified in the final report.
Methodologies for collecting, preserving, and analyzing
environmental media samples are well documented by several
government, private, and academic institutions. Sampling
locations should be documented with sufficient precision to
allow the sampling event to be reproduced later.
5.2.2. The Phase II sampling activities should be conducted
o avoid the introduction of contaminants from the sampling
equipment, sampling containers, and the analytical laboratory
into the sample and to avoid the spread of contaminants in
he environment.
5.2.3. Sampling methods that may be employed during a Phase
II site investigation are among the standards presented in
ASTM D5730. See Section 2.1. New technologies are
frequently introduced.
5.3.

Sample Handling:

5.3.1. Sample handling includes sample collection and
containerization, filtration, and preservation. Sample
containerization and preservation techniques are among the
standards presented in D5730. Only containers approved or
recommended in the applicable analytical protocol should be
used.
5.3.2. A completed chain of custody record should accompany
each shipment of samples to the analytical laboratory. Chain
of custody records provide written documentation regarding
sample collection and handling and identify the persons
involved in the chain of sample possession. Chain of custody
records also provide a written record of requested analytical
parameters.
5.3.3. The environmental professional shall ensure that the
samples are delivered such that the analysis can be completed
within the appropriate sample holding times.

6. Evaluation of Data: The implementation of the work plan
will generate information and data regarding environmental
conditions at the property which must be evaluated.
To complete the Phase II ESA, this information and data mus
be analyzed to (1) Qualify the adequacy of the work
performed, and (2) Evaluate whether a release or disposal of
hazardous substances or petroleum products has occurred. If
hazardous substances or petroleum products are not detected,
he Phase II ESA information and data should be interpreted
o determine whether all appropriate inquiry has been
performed. If so, no further work is necessary to satisfy
he "all appropriate inquiry" element of the innocen
purchaser provision of CERCLA with respect to the recognized
environmental conditions investigated. If hazardous
substances or petroleum products are detected, the Phase II
information and data shall be interpreted to determine wha
further work shall be accomplished to investigate the nature
and extent of the release.
6.1 Verification of Assumptions - The first step in analysis
of data is to test whether the assumptions upon which the
work plan was based were valid. That is, one asks whether
samples were collected of the right media (e.g., soil, ground
water) or at the right place (i.e., where contaminants should
be if the potential release had actually occurred).
A work plan is typically based upon assumptions, U.S.
Geological Survey, local well drilling logs, and previous
investigations, as to subsurface physical conditions, e.g.,
soil permeability, depth to the water table, ground water
flow direction and characteristics of potential contaminants.
Actual information on these conditions is usually gained
hrough the explorations, sampling, and observations
completed under the work plan (at least for those studies
where subsurface conditions are of concern). In some
jurisdictions, the evaluation and analysis of the subsurface
conditions may require a licensed individual (e.g.,
registered geologist, professional engineer). The
environmental professional should evaluate whether the work
plan assumptions were valid, in light of the actual
conditions encountered. If an assumption was not valid, then
he work performed may not have been adequate to verify the
presence of a REC.

For example, the work plan may have called for the
installation of a number of observation wells, some of which
were intended to be down gradient of areas where releases may
have occurred. However, the water table elevations measured
in the wells might have indicated that ground water flowed in
a different direction than that inferred for work plan
development. Hence the wells were not down gradient of the
potential release areas and their purpose was not met. This
would indicate that additional site work would have to be
done to successfully complete the Phase II ESA. On the other
hand, water table elevations may have confirmed that the
wells were down gradient, as intended. They are then
qualified as successfully meeting their purpose, and the
analysis and interpretation of data relating to them can
proceed.
6.2. Verification of Data - The second step is to evaluate
whether any target analyses detected in the samples collected
are attributable to the site. This requires the
environmental professional to determine whether the accuracy
of the analytical results should be questioned based on the
QA/QC procedures described in Section 4.7. When data quality
is determined to be acceptable, test results should be
interpreted.
7. Interpretation of Results: The results of the Phase II
explorations, sampling, and testing should be interpreted to
determine the significance of the data as they relate to the
user's objectives. The data shall be evaluated to determine
if other sources of contamination or more highly contaminated
media may exist at the site but were not investigated IAW
his Guide. If chemicals which occur in nature are detected,
he data must be interpreted to determine whether they are
naturally occurring or are present as a result of human
activity. For example, lead occurs naturally in soils and
waters, at a range of concentrations. Mere detection of lead
does not necessarily reflect lead disposal. The
environmental professional must make a scientifically sound
comparison between the lead level detected and the naturally
occurring lead level in the site vicinity (the naturally
occurring level is sometimes referred to as the "background"
or "ambient" level) and must evaluate potential sources
(e.g., fill materials present on the property in an area
where use of mine tailings as fill was prevalent) to
determine whether a disposal and/or a release have occurred.

Elimination of RECs - Where fewer than all recognized
environmental conditions identified in a Phase I ESA or
Transaction Screen are investigated in the Phase II ESA, the
conclusion that no further inquiries warranted applies only
o the recognized environmental conditions investigated.
However, this Scope should not be construed to require Phase
II assessment of all recognized environmental conditions
identified in a Phase I ESA or a Transaction Screen. Where
he Government's objectives may be otherwise satisfied, a REC
identified in a Phase I ESA or Transaction Screen may be
eliminated from the Phase II ESA.
A REC identified in a Phase I ESA or Transaction Screen may
also be eliminated from the full scope of Phase II ESA
procedures by developing further information not included in
he Phase I or Transaction Screen. For example, the user may
obtain a tank closure report not included in the Phase I
report that confirms there were no releases from the tank
which was identified as a REC in the Phase I or Transaction
Screen. This new information may eliminate the need for
additional Phase II tasks with respect to that REC.
Similarly, a REC identified in the Phase I or Transaction
Screen due to off-site conditions (e.g., a nearby CERCLIS or
LUST site) may be eliminated from a Phase II ESA if the
records associated with such sites confirm that hazardous
substances or petroleum products have not migrated or are no
likely to migrate onto the property. Such additional record
review generally occurs in the work plan development stage of
he Phase II ESA See Section 4.3.
8. Remediation Plan - As applicable, the environmental
professional shall provide a remediation plan which complies
with a clean closure, takes into account future site use, and
anticipated receptors.
8.1. Definition of Clean Closure and Factors of
Consideration: As applicable, the environmental professional
will propose to the regulators a concentration of regulated
constituents which will identify a state of clean closure.
The constituent concentration will take into consideration
background levels, future use of the site, and any impact to
he likely receptors.
8.2.

Remediation Plan:

After investigative activities are

performed, evaluated, and the definition level of clean
closure is approved by the regulatory agency of primacy, the
environmental professional will propose a remediation plan.
If applicable, the plan will identify activities to
neutralize/decontaminate the constituents with concentration
levels above those approved by the clean closure definition.
These remediation activities will be accomplished in the
second phase of this project, and are not part of this SOW.
The tasks proposed will be selected from techniques and
procedures which have been accepted by regulators and proven
economically feasible. The environmental professional will
weigh the impacts and costs that the remediation activities
have on future monitoring requirements.
9. Suggested Phase II ESA Report Preparation:
Contents is at Paragraph 10.

Table of

9.1. Purpose. The purpose of a written report is to provide
detailed documentation of the data and evaluation that (a)
documents and supports the conclusions of the environmental
professional, (b) facilitates decisions about the
ransaction, (c) substantiates the innocent purchaser
defense, if available, and (d) develops documentation for
esting necessary to compile a plan for Remedial Action Phase
III.
9.2. Standards. Preparation of a written Phase II ESA repor
is based on three standards: 1) the components of a
scientific report, 2) good technical writing, and 3) clear
and accurate presentation of the results and conclusions, and
recommendations to the user. A standard scientific repor
contains the following sections: an introduction, a summary
of background information, a description of site conditions,
a description of work performed and methods used, data
evaluation and presentation, and findings and conclusions.
The report will be supported by appropriate tables, figures,
and appendices. Good technical writing is consistent,
accurate, precise, clear and complete. In all respects, the
whole report needs to stand on its own.
9.3. Format of Report. The report format for a written Phase
II ESA report is presented in section 10. At a minimum, the
written report shall contain these elements.
9.4.

Content of Report:

9.4.1. Introductory Components. The introductory components
of this Phase II ESA shall include a transmittal letter,
executive summary, cover page and table of contents.
9.4.1.1. Transmittal Letter. A transmittal letter documents
he date of a report's delivery and identifies the intended
recipients of the report. It also may contain other
important information including a description of the repor
as draft or final and a designation that the report is
confidential and/or subject to attorney-client privilege.
The transmittal letter also may identify the staff
responsible for the work.
The environmental professional(s) responsible for the Phase
II ESA will sign the report. Signatures, along with typed
names and titles may appear in the transmittal letter, on the
cover page, or on a signature page at the end of the main
ext of the report. Where required by the local
jurisdiction, professional seals, license type and license
number, as applicable, will be affixed following a signature.
9.4.1.2. Cover Page. The cover or title page identifies the
following items: the subject property name and address, the
preparer of the report, the person for whom the report was
prepared and the date of the report. It may also include a
statement of confidentiality. If appropriate, it also may
include a statement identifying the document as subject to
certain legal privileges. For example, the cover page may
bear the following statement: Subject to Attorney-Work
Product and Other Privileges.
9.4.1.3. Table of Contents. The table of contents refers the
reader to the location of the major sections of the repor
and to the figures, tables and appendices. All section,
figure, table and appendix titles should match those of the
ext. See Section 10 for a recommended Table of Contents.
9.4.1.4. Executive Summary. An executive summary provides a
concise overview of the findings of the ESA. As a summary,
it should generally be brief and should not discuss material
not included in the text of the report.
9.4.2. Main Text. The main text of the report will contain
an introduction, a discussion of background information, a

description of work performed during the Phase II ESA and of
he methods used, data evaluation and presentation, and a
discussion of findings/conclusions.
9.4.2.1. Introduction. The introduction will include the
purpose and scope of the Phase II ESA; any special terms,
conditions, or limitations; the date of authorization of the
project and any changes. The introduction also shall
identify items not included within the scope of the Phase II
ESA that might have been expected to be included.
The introduction also references the guiding standards
including contracts/service agreements, regulatory
requirements, and the work plan. The introduction generally
identifies the specific tasks comprising the work performed
in the order in which they will be described later.
9.4.2.2. Background Information. This section shall include
a description of the site and its features, a description of
he physical site setting, a brief discussion of the site's
history and use and the use of adjacent properties, and a
summary of previous environmental site assessments.
Reference to an existing Phase I ESA report may convey this
information.
This section will identify the data and conclusions that led
o the performance of the Phase II ESA. If the Phase II ESA
is based on earlier environmental site assessments, the
earlier ESAs should be precisely identified (e.g., by
reference to report title, project number, author and date of
any report). Where appropriate, prior ESAs may be included
in an appendix. If recommendations for further work were
included in a referenced prior ESA but were not followed in
he Phase II ESA, an explanation in this section is
appropriate.
9.4.2.3. Phase II ESA Activities. This section should
summarize the work plan as actually implemented. This
section should describe what was done, identify the methods
hat were used, identify the location of the Phase II ESA
activities and pertinent site conditions. This section also
should explain the rationale for the work performed,
including the review of supplemental records and the
selection of sampling locations, analytical parameters and
methodologies. Deviations from the work plan and deviations

from standard methodologies should also be explained.
Standard procedures and methods exist for a wide variety of
activities that are performed during Phase II ESAs, including
vapor monitoring/screening methods, sampling procedures,
chain of custody procedures, drilling methods, survey
methods, well installation procedures, water level
measurement methods, and analytical methods. Many of these
methods and procedures are identified in ASTM Standard D573095, "Standard Guide for Site Characteristics for
Environmental Purposes with Emphasis on Soil, Rock the Vadose
Zone and Ground Water."
Methods used can be identified by reference to a specific
published standard or method such as ASTM, state protocols,
or EPA methodologies. Other methods used (e.g., standard
operating procedures for a particular company) will be
described in detail. Where appropriate, the details of
methods and procedures used can be included in an appendix.
9.4.2.4. Evaluation and Presentation of Results. Results of
he Phase II ESA shall be presented in a logical order and
should be summarized to allow the reader to more readily
follow the discussion of findings and conclusions which
appears in the next section of the report. Results may be
presented in text, in tables, and/or in figures. Reference
o the location of data in the appendices is appropriate.
Results should be presented consistently and accurately.
(a) Evaluation. Evaluation of data involves verifying
work plan assumptions as they relate to meeting objectives
and determining whether chemical constituents detected in
samples were attributable to site conditions or to QA/QC
failures. See Section 6 for a detailed discussion of data
evaluation.
(b) Presentation. The presentation of results will be
organized to assist the reader's understanding of the
interpretation of the chemical analysis data that follows in
he next section of the report. Organizational divisions may
be by media (e.g., soil data presented separately from ground
water data), contaminant type (e.g., organic vs. inorganic
contaminants), source (e.g., contamination from leaking
underground storage tank vs. contamination from drum storage
area), or other factors.

The specific information presented will depend on the
activities performed. Although Phase II ESAs can involve the
full range of environmental media, they most typically
involve sampling and chemical analysis or screening of soil,
vapors and/or ground water.
As a minimum, the following information shall be presented
for the referenced activities:
(1) Soil Sampling: The locations of sampling point in
relation to potential sources; the depths of sampling; the
depth to pertinent horizons, such as the water table and the
fill/natural soil contact; the sampling and analytical
methods used; and the results of chemical analyses.
(2) Vapor Sampling: The locations of sampling points
in relation to potential sources; the depths of sampling; the
depth to pertinent horizons, such as the water table and the
fill/natural soil contact; the sampling and analytical
methods used; and the results of chemical analyses.
(3) Ground Water Sampling: The locations of sampling
points in relation to potential sources; water level data
(e.g., depth to water or water table elevation, screened
interval elevation, filtered interval elevation); the
sampling and analytical methods used; and the results of
chemical analyses.
9.4.2.5. Discussion of Findings and Conclusions - Findings
and conclusions section include:
(a) A Statement that the Phase II ESA was conducted in
accordance with the guidance contained in this scope and in
accordance with the work plan, and a description of any
deviations from the scope or work plan;
(b) A summary description of: (1) the nature of the
recognized environmental conditions identified in previous
work (2) the investigations performed to evaluate the
identified recognized environmental conditions, (3) the data
generated from the investigations, and (4) any limitations of
he data produced and their impact on conclusions.
(c)

The environmental professional's interpretation of

the significance of the data as they relate to the user's
objectives. The interpretation of data can be assisted by
comparisons with applicable or relevant and appropriate
standards or guidelines. These standards or guidelines mos
often are contained in state or federal regulatory programs.
The identification and verification of reference standards
and guidelines is often assisted by legal counsel with
environmental expertise. This section shall contain
comparisons of the data with background concentrations for
naturally occurring compounds such as metals or inorganic
compounds. Appropriate citations and references to
standards, guidelines and sources for background
concentrations should be included. See Section 7 for a
detailed discussion of interpretation of results.
(d) A statement whether, in the judgment of the
environmental professional, the data generated in the Phase
II ESA are sufficient to support a conclusion, with respec
o the recognized environmental conditions investigated,
either that hazardous substances or petroleum products have
been released or disposed at the property or that hazardous
substances or petroleum products have not been released or
disposed at the property; and:
(e) Where applicable, an explanation of data
insufficiencies that prevent a conclusion that hazardous
substances or petroleum products were or were not released or
disposed at the property.
9.4.3. Concluding Components. The report shall contain
ables, figures, and appendices as necessary or appropriate
o explain and support the main text of the report.
9.4.3.1. Tables and Figures. Tables and figures may be used
as a summary presentation of data. The guidelines for data
presentation in Section 9.4.2.4. apply to tables and figures
as well as to text.
Figures that show potential sources of contamination,
sampling points, locations of other activities and surface
and subsurface structures can significantly aid the
understanding of the reader. Figures should be dated and
should include a north arrow, a bar scale (preferably a scale
hat can be used with a standard engineers' scale), a legend,
a title, and other appropriate identification. If figures

are based on the work of others the source should be
referenced.
9.4.3.2. Appendices. The following is a non-exhaustive lis
of materials that are appropriate for inclusion in appendices
o a Phase II ESA report: (a) photographs, (b) subsurface
exploration logs, (c) laboratory reports, with quality
control information, (d) chain of custody forms, (e) specific
methods, and (f) reports of previous environmental site
assessments.
9.5. Additional Services - Any additional services
contracted for between the user and the environmental
professionals, including a broader scope of assessment, more
detailed conclusions, liability/risk evaluations,
recommendations for additional Phase II investigations,
remediation techniques, etc., are beyond this scope, and
should only be included in the report if so agreed upon by
he user and the environmental professional.

10.

TABLE OF CONTENTS AND REPORT FORMAT

TRANSMITTAL LETTER
## COVER PAGE
## TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.1.

Executive Summary

1.2.

Introduction

1.2.1.

Purpose

1.2.2.

Special Terms and Conditions

1.2.3.

Limitations and Exceptions of Assessment

1.2.4.

Adjacent Property Land Use

1.3.5.

Summary of Previous Assessments

1.4.
1.4.1.

Phase II Activities
Supplemental Record Review

1.4.2.

Field Explorations

1.4.2.1.

Test Pits

1.4.2.2.

Test Borings

1.4.2.3.

Monitoring Well Installations

1.4.2.3.1.

Ground water elevation measurement

1.4.2.3 2.

Other

1.4.3.

Sampling and Chemical Analyses

1.4.3.1.

Soil

1.4.3.2.

Ground Water

1.4.3.3.

Other

1.5.

Evaluation and Presentation of Results

1.5.1.

Subsurface Conditions

1.5.1.1.

Geologic Setting

1.5.1.2.

Hydro geologic Conditions

1.5.2.

Analytical Data

1.5.2.1.

Soil

1.5.2.2.

Ground water

1 5 2.3.

Other

1.6.

Discussion of Findings and Conclusions

1.6.1.

Recognized Environmental Conditions

1.6.2.

Affected Media

1.6.3.

Evaluation of Media Quality

1 6.4.

Other Concerns

1.7.

Recommendations

LIST OF TABLES:
TABLE 1 SAMPLING SUMMARY
TABLE 2 MONITORING WELL DETAILS
TABLE 3 SUMMARY OF ANALYTICAL RESULTS BY MEDIA
TABLE 4 OTHER DATA REQUIRING SUMMARIZATION
LIST OF FIGURES:
FIGURE 1 SITE LOCUS
FIGURE 2 SITE PLAN AND EXPLORATION LOCATION PLAN
FIGURE 3 OTHER FIGURES AS NECESSARY TO DEPICT SITE CONDITIONS
(i.e., geologic cross section location plan, geologic cross
sections, ground water contour plan etc.)
LIST OF APPENDICES:
## APPENDIX A

SUBSURFACE EXPLORATION LOGS

APPENDIX B LABORATORY REPORT WITH QUALITY CONTROL
## INFORMATION
## APPENDIX

C

OTHER APPENDICES NECESSARY TO SUPPORT THE REPORT

11. Performance Period: Contractor effort will begin within
15 days after award of the contract pertaining to this SOW.
All tasks will be completed within 6 months after receipt of
his contract. Financial closeout will take place as soon as
possible after final acceptance.

Calendar Day
Contractor Award
Contractor submits work plan
Gov’t Review Completed
Final Work
Draft Final Repor
Gov’t comments
Draft Final Repor

0
30
45
75
105
115
180

12.

Access and Working Hours:

Working hours shall conform to those presently established at
Sunflower AAP for the day shift (7 a.m. to 5 p.m.), unless
otherwise specified. All personnel shall have departed from
he facility by 5 p.m., unless otherwise required or special
permission is given. Permission must be obtained in writing
from the Contracting Officer.

ENCLOSURE 1
Definitions

1. approximate minimum search distance - The area for which
records must be obtained and reviewed pursuant to ASTM
E-1527-94.
2. aquifer - As defined in D653, a water-bearing formation
hat provides a ground water reservoir.
3. ARARs - An acronym for "applicable or relevant and
appropriate requirements". A term used in CERCLA and
interpreted by EPA regulations. Applicable requirements
means "those cleanup standards, standards of control, and
other substantive requirements, criteria, or limitations
promulgated under federal environmental or state
environmental or facility siting laws that specifically
address a hazardous substance, pollutant, contaminant,
remedial action, location, or other circumstance found at a
CERCLA site." 40 CFR Section 300.5. Relevant and appropriate
requirements means "those cleanup standards, standards of
control, and other substantive requirements, criteria, or
limitations promulgated under federal environmental or state
environmental or facility siting laws that, while no
'applicable' to a hazardous substance, pollutant,
contaminant, remedial action, location, or other circumstance
at a CERCLA site, address problems or situations sufficiently
similar to those encountered at the CERCLA site that their
use is well suited to the particular site."
40 CFR section 300.5.
4. asbestos-containing materials (ACMs) - Any material or
product that contains more than 1% asbestos. See EPA,
Managing Asbestos in Place. A Building Owner's Guide to
Operations and Maintenance Programs for Asbestos-Contaminated
Materials, July 1990, pg. 2.
5. ASTM - Formerly known as American Society for Testing and
Materials
6. attorney-client privilege - A privilege that a client may
invoke to protect confidential communications between the

client and the client's attorney from disclosure.
7. business decision - A decision based on various
considerations relating to a specific property, such as a
ransfer of title or change in financing. Such
considerations may also include the potential financial
exposure associated with environmental risks, the value of
he property compared to the cost of environmental
assessment, the participation and/or motivations of specific
parties to the transaction (i.e., owner, seller, buyer,
lender, etc.).
8. CERCLA - The acronym for the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. section
9601, et seq., the primary federal statute that governs the
imposition of liability for environmental cleanups.
9.

CFR - Code of Federal Regulations

10. chain of custody - A written or printed form which is
used to document sample possession, condition and
responsibility from the time of collection through laboratory
analysis.
11. chemical phases - The physical state of the chemical,
i.e., solid, liquid, vapor/gaseous. A chemical's physical
state can change from one phase to another based on it’s
physical environment.
12. common law - As distinguished from law created by the
enactment of legislatures, the common law comprises the body
of those principles and rules of action, relating to the
government and security of persons and property, which derive
heir authority solely from uses and customs of immemorial
antiquity, or from the judgments and decrees of the courts
recognizing, affirming and enforcing such usages and customs;
and, in this sense, particularly the ancient unwritten law of
England. (Black's Law Dictionary 250-251. 5th ed. 1979).
13. cuttings - Soil or other material that is brought to the
surface by drilling and/or sampling.
14. disposal - As defined by CERCLA and interpreted by EPA
regulations, the discharge, deposit, injection, dumping,
spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste or hazardous

waste into or on any land or water so that such solid waste
or hazardous waste or any constituent thereof may enter the
environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into any
waters, including ground waters. By judicial construction,
he term also may include hazardous substances in repose in
he environment. See United States v. Waste Industries, 734
F.2d 159 (4th Cir. 1984), with the result that hazardous
substances that have migrated to a site from an off-site
source may nonetheless be considered to have been disposed a
he site. This construction is not universally accepted.
See United States v. Petersen Sand and Gravel. Inc., 806 F.
Supp. 1346 (D.III. 1992).
15. down gradient - With respect to a given reference point,
it is all points through which ground water originating a
he reference point flows until reaching a surface discharge
point or a distance or depth that ceases to be a matter of
potential environmental concern; the direction of decreasing
hydrostatic head.
16.

environmental media - soil, water, air, sediment

17. environmental professional - A person or group of
persons possessing sufficient training and experience
necessary to prepare and implement a Phase II environmental
site assessment in accordance with this scope, and from the
information generated by such activities, having the ability
o develop sound conclusions regarding recognized
environmental conditions in connection with the property in
question. An individual's status as an environmental
professional may be limited to the type of assessment to be
performed or to specific segments of the assessment for which
he professional is responsible. The person may be an
independent contractor or an employee of the user. NOTE:
Some jurisdictions may have licensing requirements for
individuals who perform certain activities included in a
Phase II ESA.
18.

EPA - United States Environmental Protection Agency

19.

ESA - environmental site assessment

20. fate and transport characteristics - Natural
consequences that can be predicted based on the
distinguishing characteristics of a substance and the media

which carry the substance.
21.

field screening - see Section 5.1.

22. ground water - As defined by ASTM D653, the part of the
subsurface that is in the saturated zone. Loosely, all
subsurface water as distinct from surface water.
23. ground water flow - as defined by ASTM D63, the movemen
of water in the zone of saturation.
24. ground water flow direction - the compass bearing of the
movement of water in the zone of saturation.
25. hazardous substance - a substance defined as a hazardous
substance pursuant to CERCLA, 42 U.S.C. section 9601(14) as
interpreted by EPA regulations and the courts. The term
includes any substance designated pursuant to section
311(b)(2)(A) of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. section
1321(b)(2)(A); any element, compound, mixture, solution or
substance designated pursuant to section 102 of CERCLA, 42
U.S.C. section 9602; any hazardous waste having the
characteristics identified under or listed pursuant to
section 3001 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C.
section 6921 et seq., has been suspended by Act of Congress;
any toxic pollutant listed under section 307(a) of the Clean
Water Act, 33 U.S.C. section 1317(a); any hazardous air
pollutant listed under-section 112 of the Clean Air Act, 42
U.S.C. section 7412; and any imminently hazardous chemical
substance or mixture with respect to which the EPA
administrator has taken action pursuant to section 7 of the
Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. section 2606. The
erm does not include petroleum, including crude oil or any
fraction thereof which is not otherwise specifically listed
or designated as a hazardous substance by EPA and the term
does not include natural gas, natural gas liquids, liquefied
natural gas, or synthetic gas usable for fuel (or mixtures of
natural gas and such synthetic gas). Hazardous substances
designated by EPA are listed in 40 CFR Section 302.4.
26. mg/kg - A common expression of concentration of any
chemical constituent in a sample mass. Milligrams per
kilogram are equivalent to parts per million (ppm), by
weight.

27. ug/kg - A common expression of concentration of any
chemical constituent in a sample mass. Micrograms per
kilogram are equivalent to parts per billion (ppb), by
weight.
28. naturally occurring chemical substances - Substances
which occur in nature and whose presence in that location is
not a result of human activity.
29. NCP - The National Oil and Hazardous Substances
Pollution Contingency Plan, found at 40 CFR section 300.
Loosely, the NCP is EPA’s blueprint on how hazardous
substances are to be cleaned up pursuant to CERCLA.
30. organic compounds - carbon compounds, whether natural or
synthetic in origin. Examples of some specific compounds of
environmental concern are: benzene, toluene, and naphthalene
(petroleum components); tetrachloroethylene and
richloroethylene (chlorinated solvents); and
chlorofluorocarbons such as Freon.
31. petroleum products - those substances included within
he petroleum exclusion to CERCLA, 42 U.S.C. section
9601(14), as interpreted by the courts and EPA; that is,
petroleum, including crude oil or any fraction thereof which
is not otherwise specifically listed or designated as a
hazardous substance under subparagraphs (A) through (F) of 42
U.S.C section 9601(14), natural gas, natural gas liquids,
liquefied natural gas, and synthetic gas usable for fuel (or
mixtures of natural gas and such synthetic gas). (The word
fraction refers to certain distillates of crude oil,
including gasoline, kerosene, diesel oil, jet fuels, and fuel
oil, pursuant to Standard Definitions of Petroleum
Statistics).
32. Phase I environmental site assessments (ESAs) - The
process described in ASTM E1527-94.
33. Phase II environmental site assessments (ESAs) - The
process described in this scope.
34. principal source(s) of drinking water - The body of
water which may be used as drinking water by one or more
individuals.

35. property - The property that is the subject of the ESA
described in this Guide. The term includes buildings and
other fixtures and improvements located on the property and
affixed to the land.
36. purged ground water - Water that is removed from a
monitoring well prior to collecting a representative sample
of the aquifer including water generated during installation
and well development.
37. quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) - The use of
standards and procedures to ensure that samples collected and
data generated are reliable, reproducible and verifiable.
38. recognized environmental condition (REC) - The presence
or likely presence of any hazardous substances or petroleum
products on property under conditions that indicate an
existing release, a past release, or a material threat of a
release of any hazardous substances or petroleum products
into structures on the property or into the ground, ground
water or surface water of the property. The term includes
hazardous substances or petroleum products even under
conditions in compliance with laws. The term is not intended
o include de minimis conditions that generally do no
present a material risk of harm to public health or the
environment and that generally would not be the subject of an
enforcement action if brought to the attention of appropriate
governmental agencies.
39. release - As defined by section 101(22) of CERCLA, 42
U.S.C. section 9601(22), "any spilling, leaking, pumping,
pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting,
escaping, leaching, dumping, or disposing into the
environment (including the abandonment or discarding of
barrels, containers, and other closed receptacles containing
any hazardous substance or pollutant or contaminant), bu
excluding (A) any release which results in exposure to
persons solely within a workplace, with respect to a claim
which such persons may assert against the employer of such
persons, (B) emissions from the engine exhaust of a motor
vehicle, rolling stock aircraft, vessel, or pipeline pumping
station engine, (C) release of source, byproduct, or special
nuclear material from a nuclear incident, as those terms are
defined in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 [42 U.S.C. section
2011 et seq.], if such release is subject to requirements

with respect to financial protection established by the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission under section 170 of such Ac
[42 U.S.C. section 2210], or, for the purposes of section
[104 of CERCLA] or any other response action, any release of
source, byproduct, or special nuclear material from any
processing site designated under section [102(s)(1) or 302(a)
of the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978;
42 U.S.C. section 7912(a)(1) or 7942(a)], and (D) the normal
application of fertilizer."
40. sample medium - The particular matrix that is sampled
for laboratory analysis. Examples of commonly encountered
matrices include; soil, sludge, sediment, air, wastes, pure
or mixtures of chemicals, ground water, drinking water,
surface water, etc.
41. self-evaluation privilege - A privilege invoked to
protect from disclosure confidential information resulting
from a critical self-analysis undertaken by the party seeking
o invoke the privilege.
42. Superfund - The common name for the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, 42
U.S.C. section 9601, et seq., as amended by the Superfund
Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 ("SARA"), the
primary federal statute that governs the imposition of
liability for environmental cleanups.
43. surface water - Water above the surface of the ground,
including but not limited to lakes, ponds, reservoirs,
artificial impoundments, streams, rivers, springs, seeps, and
wetlands.
44. target analyte - A chemical substance or class of
chemicals that is selected for laboratory analysis.
45. Transaction Screen Process - The process described in
ASTM E1528.
46.

U.S.C. - United States Code

47. user - The party seeking to use Standard Practice E1527,
E1528 or this Guide to guide performance of an ESA of the
property. A user may include, without limitation, a
purchaser of property, a potential tenant of property, an

owner of property, a lender, or a property manager.
48. vadose zone - As defined in ASTM D4696 and 5314, the
hydro-geological region extending from the soil surface to
he top of the principle water table; commonly referred to as
he "unsaturated zone" or zone of aeration".
49. water table - As defined in ASTM D4750, the surface of a
ground water body at which the water pressure equals
atmospheric pressure. Earth material below the ground water
able is saturated with water.
50. work product privilege - A privilege that provides
limited protection from disclosure to another party of
documents and tangible things discovered or prepared by or
for one party or that party's representative (e.g., attorney,
consultant) in anticipation of litigation or for trial.

