# 1930_Document_1930

_Converted from PDF using pdftotext_

RFP #
5.1

5.1.1

5.1.2

5.1.3

5.1.4

5.1.5

5.1.6

Requirement

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

Timeliness
Standard

AQL

Maximum

Budget and
Financial Suppor

D
## O

Provide Assistance
In The Budge
Process

# Of assists
performed per
month

Assist In The
Preparation Of
Grants, Contracts,
And Cooperative
Agreements

# Of assists
performed per
month

Type, Route And
Gain Approval For
Acquisitions

# Of
acquisitions
accomplished
per week

Process Invoices

# Of invoices
processed per
week

Analyze Budget /
Finance Problems
And Resolve
Discrepancies
Research And
Produce Paymen
Voucher History For
Paymen

Surveillance Method

# Of problems
/
discrepancies
resolved per
month
# Of vouchers
processed per
week

All assists performed
were accurate,
complete, and met the
requirements of the
person needing
assistance.
All assists performed
were accurate,
complete, and met the
requirements of the
person needing
assistance.
All acquisitions were
accomplished
accurately, complete,
and met the needs of
he requester.
All invoices processed
were accurate and
complete; reconciled,
entered into data
base, and coordinated
as needed.
All problems /
discrepancies were
resolved satisfactorily.

3%

All vouchers were
processed accurately
and complete for
payment.

1%

3%

2%

1%

5%

Assists were
complete within 2
hours of initiation

10%

Assists were
complete within 2
hours of initiation

10%

Acquisitions were
completed within
2 days of a
reques

5%

Invoices were
processed within
1 day of receip

2%

Problems /
discrepancies
were resolved
within 5 days of
discovery
Vouchers
processed within
1 day of receip

7%

2%

MIS

PI

US

VU
## CC

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

100
%

PS

RS

COB

COB
## X

5 days

2 days
## X

5 days

COB
## X

1

X

RFP #
5.1

5.1.7

5.1.8

5.1.9

5.1.10

Requirement

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

Timeliness
Standard

AQL

Maximum

Budget and
Financial Suppor

Surveillance Method
## D
## O

Maintain Charge
Card Corporate
Accoun

# Of corporate
card entries
per day

Work With Data
Tracking System
And EAGLS
Tracking System

# Of
statements
per week

Complete Cost
Codes On
Statements

# Of
statements
per day

Process Permit /
License Fees For
Deposi

# Of permits /
licenses per
week

All corporate charge
card entries were
reconciled for
accuracy and
completeness
All EAGLS
statements, TMC
printouts and budgets
checked for accuracy
and corrections made
as needed
All statements have
accurate cost codes

All permits / licenses
processed accurately
and correctly and fees
deposited

1%

5%

1%

5%

Corporate
Charge Card
maintained daily

2%

Reviews and
corrections made
by the end of the
week received

10%

Statements
reviewed for
accuracy within 1
working day of
receipt COB
Permits /
licenses
processed and
fees deposited
by the end of the
week received.

2%

10%

MIS

PI

US

VU
## CC

X

100
%

PS

RS

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

5 days

By the end of
each month

Statements
reviewed for
accuracy within
2 working days
of receipt COB
By the end of
he month
received.

X

X

2

RFP #
5.2

5.2.1

RFP #
5.3

5.3.1

5.3.2

5.3.3

5.3.4

Requirement

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

Timeliness
Standard

AQL

Maximum

Federal Finance
System (FFS)
Manage User
Accounts

Requirement

D
## O
# Of accounts
managed per
month

Accounts managed
accurately and IAW
FFS procedures and
requirements

5%

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

Accounts were
managed and
maintained within
1 working day

Timeliness
Standard

5%

AQL

Maximum

Prepare
Endangered
Species Listing

Prepare Federal
Register Documents

Prepare And
Finalize, In Standard
Format News
Releases, And
Advisories For The
Media

All final and draft
correspondence has
been reviewed for
format, grammar, and
spelling
Endangered Species
Listing reviewed for
format, grammar, and
spelling

1%

Federal Register
documents prepared
in proper format, with
correct grammar and
spelling
News releases and
advisories are
prepared and finalized
accurately, complete
with proper format,
grammar, and spelling

1%

1%

1%

All
correspondence
submitted within
1 working day of
assignmen
Listing is
prepared and
completed within
5 working days of
initiation

3%

Within 1 working
day of initiation

3%

Within 1 working
day of initiation

5%

3%

All
correspondence
submitted within
2 working days
of assignmen
Listing is
prepared and
completed
within 10
working days of
initiation
Within 2 working
days of initiation

PI

US

VU
## CC

X

X

X

100
%

PS

RS

PS

RS

Surveillance Method
## D
## O

# Of draft and
final
corresponden
ce prepared
per month
# Of
Endangered
Species
listings
prepared per
month
# Of Federal
Register
documents
prepared per
month
# 0f news
releases and
advisories per
month

MIS

Accounts were
managed and
maintained
within 2 working
days

Correspondence

Prepare Draft And
Final
Correspondence

Surveillance Method

MIS

PI

US

VU
## CC

100
%

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

Within 2 working
days of initiation

3

RFP #
5.3

5.3.5

5.3.6

5.3.7

5.3.8

Requirement

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

Timeliness
Standard

AQL

Maximum

Correspondence

Surveillance Method
## D
## O

Create And Maintain
Lists For Distribution
And Contac
Purposes.

# 0f lists
created
/maintained
per year

Lists created
/maintained that are
accurate, complete,
and IAW requirements

2%

Respond Via Email,
Telephone, And
Ground Mail To
Inquiries For
Information
Assemble
Information Supplied
By External Affairs
Staff And Other
Programs Into A
Weekly Report For
Washington
External Affairs
Office
Create And Update
Logs For The Native
American Gran
Program

# Of inquiries
per week

Responses to
inquiries were
accurate/correct and
met the needs of the
requester.
All Weekly Reports
prepared accurately,
complete, with proper
format, grammar, and
spelling

1%

Logs are created and
maintained accurately
and correctly

1%

# Of weekly
reports per
year

# of grant
requests per
year

1%

Within 2 days of
knowledge tha
he list needs
creation /
maintenance
Inquiries
responded to
within 5 working
days for all
others
Within 1 working
day of receiving
information

Within 2 working
days of receipt of
grant reques

5%

3%

2%

3%

MIS

PI

US

VU
## CC

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

100
%

PS

Within 5 working
days

Within 10
working days

Within 3 working
days, no later
han due date

Within 3 working
days

4

RS

RFP #
5.4

5.4.1

5.4.2

RFP #
5.5

5.5.1

5.5.2

Requirement

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

Timeliness
Standard

AQL

Maximum

Customer Service

D
## O

Greet Visitors,
Refer Inquiries, And
Answer General
Questions

# Greetings /
Contacts
Made Per
Month

Greetings were
courteous, with a
smile, and pleasan
voice

5%

Coordinates
Scientist In The
School Program
Activities

# Program
activities
scheduled per
month

Program activities are
scheduled accurately
and correctly

5%

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

Requirement

Customer /
Visitor was
greeted within 1
o 2 minutes of
arrival
Program
activities were
scheduled within
5 working days of
a reques

Timeliness
Standard

5%

10%

AQL

Produce and/or
format Specific
Reports for
Distribution

Databases managed
and maintained
accurately and
correctly in a logical
and orderly manner
Database reports
were produced and
distributed IAW with
current guidance

5%

2%

Databases
managed and
maintained IAW
established
schedules
Database repor
compiled and
distributed within
2 working days

5%

2%

PI

US

VU
## CC

X

X

X

X

100
%

PS

RS

PS

RS

Within 10
working days

Maximum

Surveillance Method
## D
## O

# Of
databases
managed and
maintained
per month
# Of database
reports
produced and
distributed
monthly

MIS

Within 5
minutes

Data Management

Manage Databases

Surveillance Method

Within 1 day of
established
schedule

US

VU
## CC

X

X

X

X

X

X

MIS

PI

100
%

Within 3 working
days

5

RFP #
5.6

5.6.1

5.6.2

RFP #
5.7

5.7.1

5.7.2

Requirement

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

Timeliness
Standard

AQL

Maximum

Executive Support

D
## O

Provide Support To
The Executive Level
Staff (ARD And
Higher)

# Of Executive
Level Suppor
Activities
Provided

Support Was Provided
In A Courteous And
Professional Manner

1%

Provide Secretarial
Support to Senior
Staff

# of support
activities
provided

Support Was Provided
in a Courteous and
Professional Manner

5%

Requirement

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

Support was
provided within 2
hours of reques

3%

Support was
provided within 2
hours of reques

5%

Timeliness
Standard

AQL

Conduct Record
Search And
Consolidate
Collected Records
In To Applicable
Forma

# Of searches
/
consolidations
in applicable
format made
per month

Reviews were IAW
Service FOIA policy
and Regional
guidance from
Regional FOIA Officer
Document(s) were
IAW Service FOIA
policy and Regional
guidance from
Regional FOIA Officer

3%

3%

Reviews were
processed within
2 working days

5%

Formatted
documents were
processed within
5 working days

5%

PI

US

VU
## CC

X

X

X

X

100
%

PS

RS

PS

RS

COB

Maximum

Surveillance Method
## D
## O

# Of reviews
made per
month

MIS

COB

Freedom of
Information Ac
(FOIA)
Review And Analyze
Reques

Surveillance Method

MIS

PI

US

VU
## CC

X

X

X

X

100
%

Within 5 working
days

Within 10
working days

6

RFP #
5.7

5.7.3

5.7.4

RFP #
5.8

5.8.1

5.8.2

Requirement

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

Timeliness
Standard

AQL

Maximum

Freedom of
Information Ac
(FOIA)

Surveillance Method
## D
## O

Coordinate For
Review Of Produc
By Regional FOIA
Officer And/Or
Solicitorâ€™s Office
Conduct Final
Review Of
Documents / Index
For Accuracy

# of reviews
coordinated
per month

Requirement

Lot

# Of reviews
made per
month

Reviews were IAW
Service FOIA policy
and Regional
guidance from
Regional FOIA Officer
Final review
completed / indexed
and submitted for
signature

3%

Quality Standard

AQL

3%

Reviews
submitted within
2 working days

5%

Final reviews
submitted within
2 working days

5%

Timeliness
Standard

AQL

Consolidate All
Collected Records
Into Applicable
Forma

# Of records
consolidated
in appropriate
forma

Reviews were made
with accurate analysis
IAW assigned
attorney
Consolidation of
records were make
IAW attorney
instructions and
appropriate forma

5%

5%

Reviews were
made within 1-3
working days of
receip
Consolidations
completed within
1-3 working days

10%

10%

US

VU
## CC

X

X

X

X

100
%

PS

RS

PS

RS

Within 4 working
days

Maximum

Surveillance Method
## D
## O

# Of reviews
made per
month

PI

Within 4 working
days

Litigation

Review And Analyze
Initial Filing

MIS

Reviews were
made within 4-6
working days of
receip
Consolidations
were completed
within 4-6
working days

MIS

PI

US

VU
## CC

X

X

X

X

100
%

7

RFP #
5.8

5.8.3

RFP #
5.9

5.9.1

5.9.2

5.9.3

5.9.4

Requirement

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

Timeliness
Standard

AQL

Maximum

Litigation

Conduct Final
Review Of
Documents/Index
For Accuracy

Requirement

D
## O
# Of final
reviews
completed per
month

Final review for
accuracy IAW
attorney instructions
and appropriate
forma

5%

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

Final reviews
completed within
1-2 working days

Timeliness
Standard

10%

AQL

Maximum

Conduct PreMeeting Activities

Provide Assistance
And Support For
Meeting

Conduct PostMeeting Activities

Meetings were
organized and
conducted in a logical
and orderly manner

5%

Activities conducted
accurately, completely
IAW meeting
requirements

5%

Assistance and
support was provided
IAW established
meeting requirements

5%

# Of postmeeting
activities per
month

All post-meeting
activities completed
IAW direction from
requestor

5%

Meetings were
conducted within
1 working day of
reques

5%

Activities were
completed within
10 working days
prior to meeting

5%

Assistance and
support was
provided during
meeting, within
30 minutes of
reques
Activities
completed within
1 work work of
meeting
conclusion

2%

2%

PI

US

VU
## CC

X

X

100
%

PS

RS

PS

RS

Surveillance Method
## D
## O

# Of preplanning
meetings
conducted per
month
# Of premeeting
activities
conducted per
month
# Of meetings
held/conducte
d per month

MIS

Final reviews
completed
within 3-4
working days

Meetings/Workshops/Outreach/
Training Suppor
Conduct PrePlanning Meeting

Surveillance Method

MIS

PI

US

VU
## CC

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

100
%

Within 2 working
days of reques

Within 1 working
day prior to
meeting

Within 1 hour of
reques

Within 2 work
weeks

8

RFP #
5.10

5.10.1

5.10.2

Requirement

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

Timeliness
Standard

AQL

Maximum

Office
Managemen
5.10.1 Perform
Office Managemen
And Suppor
Activities

5.10.2 Conduct Mail
And Related
Activities

Surveillance Method
## D
## O

# Of management and
suppor
activities
performed per
week
# Of pieces of
mail or related
activities
conducted per
week

Management and
support activities
performed accurately
and completely

2%

All mail and related
activities are
conducted accurately
and completely

2%

Activities are
performed within
2 working days of
reques

5%

Mail and related
activities were
performed the
same day
requested

4%

Activities are
performed
within 5 working
days of reques

By COB the
next working
day following
he reques

MIS

PI

US

VU
## CC

X

X

X

X

100
%

PS

RS

X

9

RFP #
5.11

5.11.1

5.11.2

RFP #
5.12

5.12.1

5.12.2

5.12.3

Requirement

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

Timeliness
Standard

AQL

Maximum

Permits

Initiate Permit
Issuance

D
## O
# Of permi
applications
received per
month

All applications have
been reviewed for
accuracy and
completeness

5%

Collect And
Transmit Permi
Fees, And File
Permits And Related
Documents

# Of permits
issued per
month

All permits issued
were accurate and
complete and fees
ransmitted correctly

3%

Requirement

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

All applications
were reviewed
within one
working day of
receip
Permits were
issued within 2
working days and
fees transmitted
within the same
ime frame

Timeliness
Standard

5%

5%

AQL

# Of actions
processed per
month

Track And Forward
Personnel Actions

#Of actions
racked /
forwarded per
month
# Of actions
handled per
month

Inputs into the
database are
accurate, complete,
and appropriate
Logs and routes
personnel actions as
appropriate

1%

Actions prepared /
distributed / filed /
indexed / as
appropriate

1%

1%

Inputs were
made within 2
working days

5%

Action completed
within 4 working
days

5%

Actions
completed within
4 working days

5%

PI

US

VU
## CC

X

X

X

X

100
%

PS

RS

X

Within 5 working
days

Maximum

Inputs were
made within 4
working days
Actions
completed
within 5 working
days
Actions
completed
within 5 working
days

X

Surveillance Method
## D
## O

Process Individual
Personnel Actions

MIS

Within 2 working
day

Personnel

Prepare/Distribute
Final Action Copy
To Employee, Index
And File Completed
Action

Surveillance Method

MIS

PI

US

VU
## CC

100
%

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

PS

10

RS

RFP #
5.12

5.12.4

RFP #
5.13

5.13.1

Requirement

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

Timeliness
Standard

AQL

Maximum

Personnel

D
## O

Advises Staff And
Performs Quality
Reviews Of
Performance Plans,
Appraisals,
Evaluations, And
Awards

# Of
advisories /
reviews
handled per
month

Requirement

Lot

Advise and reviews
are completed IAW
applicable Service
policies and
supervisory
requirements

Quality Standard

3%

AQL

Actions / reviews
completed within
5 working days

Timeliness
Standard

5%

AQL

Maximum

Property custodian
duties are completed
accurately and
completely

10%

Duties/actions
completed within
2 work days of
assignment,
request, or
required
schedule

5%

PI

Duties/actions
completed
within 5 work of
assignment,
request, or
required
schedule

US

VU
## CC

X

X

100
%

PS

RS

PS

RS

Surveillance Method
## D
## O

# Of Property
Custodial
duties
conducted per
month

MIS

Actions /
reviews
completed
within 10
working days

Property
Managemen
Conduct Property
Custodian Duties
IAW Delegation Of
Authority

Surveillance Method

MIS

PI

US

VU
## CC

X

X

X

100
%

X

11

RFP #
5.14

5.14.1

5.14.2

5.14.3

5.14.4

Requirement

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

Timeliness
Standard

AQL

Maximum

Records
Managemen
Develop And
Maintain Record
Management Plan

Develop And
Maintain Electronic
Filing System

Review Retention
Schedules And
Prepare Records
For Transfer
Other Records
Managemen
Support Functions

Surveillance Method
## D
## O

# Of record
managemen
plans
developed
and
maintained
per month
# Of electronic
filing systems
developed
and
maintained
per month
# Of reviews
and record
ransfers per
month
# Of other
functions
completed per
month

Record management
plans developed and
maintained accurately
and completely

5%

Electronic filing
systems developed
and maintained
accurately and
completely

5%

Review and Record
Transfer completed In
Accordance With
Current Guidance
All Record Functions
Completed In
Accordance With
Current Guidance

5%

5%

Record
managemen
plans developed
/ maintained
weekly

3%

System
developed /
maintained
weekly

3%

Transfer Was
Completed
Within 2 working
days of review
Record
Functions
Completed
Within 2 working
days

3%

3%

Record
managemen
plans developed
/ maintained bi weekly

System
developed /
maintained biweekly

Within 5 working
days

MIS

PI

US

VU
## CC

100
%

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

PS

RS

Within 5 working
days

12

RFP #
5.15

5.15.1

5.15.2

RFP #
5.16

5.16.1

Requirement

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

Timeliness
Standard

AQL

Maximum

Reports

Identify Report
Suppor
Requirements

Report
Reproduction/Copyi
ng In Various
Formats

Requirement

D
## O
# Of repor
suppor
requirements
performed per
month
# Of
reproduction /
copying
assignments
per month

Report support
requirements are
performed accurately
and completely

1%

Reproduction /
copying assignments
were completed
accurately and
completely

2%

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

Requirements
were completed
within 2 working
days of reques

5%

Assignments
completed within
1 working week

5%

Timeliness
Standard

AQL

Library inventory and
services provided
accurately, completely
and in a timely
manner

2%

Services
provided with 2
working days of
requirement or
reques

5%

PI

Assignments
completed
within 2 working
weeks

Maximum

Services
provided with 5
working days of
requirement or
reques

US

VU
## CC

100
%

X

X

X

X

X

X

PS

RS

Surveillance Method
## D
## O

# Of Library,
inventory and
services
provided per
month

MIS

Requirements
were completed
within 4 working
days of reques

Technical Library
Activities and
Services
Create, Update, And
Maintain Library
Inventory And
Services

Surveillance Method

MIS

PI

US

VU
## CC

X

X

100
%

PS

RS

X

13

RFP #
5.17

5.17.1

RFP #
5.18

5.18.1

Requirement

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

Timeliness
Standard

AQL

Maximum

Time and
Attendance

D
## O

Process Time And
Attendance Reports
And Records

# Of time and
attendance
records
processed
every two
weeks

All time and
attendance reports
and records are
processed accurately
and completely , IAW
pertinent guidance

1%

Requirement

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

All reports are
processed by the
end of the pay
period involved

Timeliness
Standard

2%

AQL

By the Monday
following the
end of the
involved pay
period

Logs are tracked and
maintained accurately
and completely IAW
established
procedures

2%

Logs tracked /
maintained on a
daily basis

5%

Logs tracked /
maintained
within 2 working
days

PI

X

US

VU
## CC

X

X

100
%

PS

RS

X

Surveillance Method
## D
## O

# Of Tracking
logs managed
and
maintained

MIS

Maximum

Tracking Logs

Track and Maintain
Logs

Surveillance Method

MIS

PI

US

VU
## CC

X

X

X

100
%

PS

14

RS

RFP #
5.19

5.19.1

5.19.2

5.19.3

5.19.4

Requirement

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

Timeliness
Standard

AQL

Maximum

Training

Conduct Training

Attend Training

Research and
Analyze Availability
of Training from
Multiple Sources for
Suitability, Cos
Effectiveness, and
Best Value
Prepare Training
Registration/Acquisi
ion Forms

Surveillance Method
## D
## O

# of courses
conducted per
month

# of training
courses
attended per
year
# of training
opportunities
analyzed per
month

# of forms
prepared per
month

Training was
informative and
fulfilled the
requirements of the
## FWS
All training was
successfully
completed and had
been included in the
appropriate IDP
All training
opportunities analyzed
are accurate and
complete

1%

All training registration
/ acquisition forms are
completed accurately
and completely

1%

1%

2%

Training
performed on
date scheduled

5%

Training was
completed on the
exact date and
ime as
scheduled
Analysis was
performed within
one week of
reques

3%

Forms are
completed within
2 working days of
a reques

3%

4%

Training
performed IAW
approved rescheduled date
The nex
available date
and time as
scheduled

X

MIS

PI

US

VU
## CC

100
%

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

PS

RS

Within two
weeks

Within 4 working
days

15

RFP #
5.20

5.20.1

5.20.2

5.20.3

5.20.4

Requirement

Lot

Quality Standard

AQL

Timeliness
Standard

AQL

Maximum

Travel

Plan And Reserve
Travel/Lodging/
Transportation For
Federal And NonFederal Employees
/Official Volunteers
(Foreign And
Domestic Travel)
Process Travel
Vouchers

Surveillance Method
## D
## O

# Of Travel
arrangements
made per
months

Travel reservations
were accurate,
complete, and IAW
requestorâ€™s
requirements

1%

# of travel
vouchers
processed per
month

Travel vouchers were
processed accurately
and complete

2%

Advise Employees
On Changes In
Travel Regulations

# of changes
per month

Changes in travel
regulations are shared
with employees

2%

Receive, Process,
And Distribute Govâ€™
Checks/Cash To
Non-Federal
Employees/Official
Volunteers

# of checks /
cash
distributed per
month

Travel checks / cash
were distributed
correctly

1%

Reservations
were complete
within 2 working
days of the
reques

5%

Travel vouchers
were processed
within 5 working
days of
completed travel
Regulations are
shared within
one week of
becoming aware
of changes
Within 2 working
days of receip

5%

5%

2%

MIS

PI

US

VU
## CC

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

100
%

PS

RS

5 working days

5 working days
## X

2 weeks

By end of week
received
## X

X

16

