# 59700_Document_59700

_Converted from PDF using pdftotext_

GSA Multiple Award Schedule
Pre-Engineered/Prefabricated Buildings

Ordering Guide

Table of Contents
Page 3
• Purpose
• What are Pre-Engineered/Prefabricated Buildings?
Page 4
• Benefits
Page 6
• How to Purchase Pre-Engineered/Prefabricated Buildings from GSA
• Salient Characteristics of a Building
Page 8
• Ordering Procedures
• Frequently Asked Questions
Page 11
• GSA Points of Contac
• Samples
o Statement of Objectives
o Statement of Work, and more
Page 27
• Appendix with Photos

Page | 2

Purpose
This purpose of this document is create a comprehensive ordering guide that assists
ordering agencies, particularly contracting officers, to effectively use the GSA Multiple
Award Schedules (MAS) to purchase total solutions for Pre-Engineered/Prefabricated
Buildings. This Ordering Guide is not a stand-alone reference - it is recommended tha
he reader also become familiar with the MAS Desk Reference Guide and Federal
Acquisition Regulations (FAR), 8.4 and Federal Supply Schedules. This Ordering
Guide may be revised from time to time.
What are Pre-Engineered/Prefabricated Buildings?
The most widely used form of prefabrication in building and civil engineering is the use
of prefabricated concrete and prefabricated steel sections in structures where a
particular part or form is repeated many times. Modular Construction can be
considered a form of Prefabricated Construction.
Precast is a construction product (mostly concrete) produced by casting concrete in a
reusable mold or "form" which is then cured in a controlled environment, transported to
he construction site and lifted into place. In contrast, standard concrete is poured into
site-specific forms and cured on site.
Prefabrication is the practice of assembling components of a structure in a factory or
other manufacturing site, and transporting complete assemblies or sub-assemblies to
he construction site where the structure is to be located. The term is used to distinguish
his process from the more conventional construction practice of transporting the basic
materials to the construction site where all assembly is carried out.
The term prefabrication also applies to the manufacturing of things other than structures
at a fixed site. It is frequently used when fabrication of a section of a machine or any
movable structure is shifted from the main manufacturing site to another location, and
he section is supplied assembled and ready to fit. It is not generally used to refer to
electrical or electronic components of a machine, or mechanical parts such as pumps,
gearboxes and compressors which are usually supplied as separate items, but to
sections of the body of the machine which in the past were fabricated with the whole
machine. Prefabricated parts of the body of the machine may be called 'sub-assemblies'
o distinguish them from the other components.
The most widely used form of prefabrication in building and civil engineering is the use
of prefabricated concrete and prefabricated steel sections in structures where a
particular part or form is repeated many times. It can be difficult to construct the
Page | 3

formwork required to mold concrete components on site, and delivering wet concrete to
he site before it starts to set requires precise time management. Pouring concrete
sections in a factory brings the advantages of being able to re-use moulds and the
concrete can be mixed on the spot without having to be transported to and pumped we
on a congested construction site. Prefabricating steel sections reduces on-site cutting
and welding costs as well as the associated hazards.
Pre-engineering is the practice of designing a building and compiling materials to be
assembled onsite. It removes the need for a contractor to source materials from multiple
suppliers, as the materials will arrive onsite as a package with a plan set explaining
assembly, similar to a child’s building block kit. An important difference to note is tha
he pre-engineered building requires on-site construction.
Benefits of Pre-engineered/Modular Buildings Compared to Conventional
Construction
Modular vs. Conventional Construction:
A modular building is a pre-engineered structure that is flexible enough to satisfy
virtually any requirement. It is usually tougher than standard drywall construction as well
as its ability to be expanded, relocated, reusable, and recyclable. The primary
advantage of modular/pre-engineered buildings over conventional construction is tha
hey can save up to 35% on initial construction costs such as labor and materials.
Applications:
Office buildings, training centers, aircraft structures, schools, hangers, dormitories,
dining facilities, temporary office space, restrooms, guard shacks, border stations,
restrooms, mezzanines, and much more.

The chart on the next page details some benefits of pre-engineered modular buildings:

Page | 4

GREEENER

The factory-controlled
process generates less
waste, creates fewer
site disturbances and
allows for tighter
construction.

Less Site
Disturbance

FASTER

Construction of modular buildings
occurs simultaneously with site
work, allowing projects to be
completed in half the time of
raditional construction

Reduced Construction
Schedule

On-site traffic is greatly
minimized from workers,
equipment and
suppliers

Because construction of modular
buildings can occur simultaneously
with the site and foundation work,
projects can be completed 30% to
50% sooner than traditional
construction.

Greater Flexibility
and Reuse

Elimination of Weather
Delays

Modular buildings can
be disassembled and
he modules relocated
or refurbished for new
use, reducing the
demand for raw
materials and
minimizing the amoun
of energy expended to
create a building to
meet the new need.

Less Material
Waste

When building in a
factory, waste is
eliminated by recycling
materials, controlling
inventory and protecting
building materials.

Improved Air
Quality

Because the modular
structure is substantially
completed in a factorycontrolled setting using
dry materials, the
potential for high levels
of moisture being
rapped in the new
construction is
eliminated.

Page | 5

60 - 90% of the construction is
completed inside a factory, which
mitigates the risk of weather delays.
Buildings are occupied sooner,
creating a faster return on
investment.

Built to Code with Quality
Materials

Modular buildings are built to meet
or exceed the same building codes
and standards as site-buil
structures, and the same architectspecified materials used in
conventionally constructed buildings
are used in modular construction
projects – wood, concrete and
steel.

SMARTER

Modular buildings are built with the
same materials and to the same building codes
and architectural specifications
as traditional construction. Once assembled,
hey are virtually indistinguishable from their
site-built counterparts.

Safer Construction

The indoor construction environment reduces
he risks of accidents and related liabilities for
workers.

Better Engineered Building & BIM

PMC relies on advanced BIM for visualization
o assess the energy performance and identify
he most cost-effective efficiency measures.
PMC is ideal for the use of this technology
where the construction process is already a
collaboration of systems, materials and
people—much like the software itself.

Limitless Design Opportunities

Modular units may be designed to fit in with
external aesthetics of any existing building and
modular units, once assembled, are virtually
indistinguishable from their site-buil
counterparts.

How to purchase Pre-Engineered/Pre-Fabricated Buildings from GSA
After agencies have determined their requirements to include the salient characteristics
of the building (see below), they are ready to start the acquisition phase. GSA has a
whole host of Pre-fabricated and Pre-engineered buildings available for agencies to
purchase through our Multiple Award Schedules (MAS) Program.
Under Facilities the following Special Item Numbers (SIN) are applicable to preengineered and pre-fabricated buildings:
332311P - Includes storage structures made of wood, fiberglass, steel, aluminum,
metal, tension fabric, pre-cast concrete, etc. All options include accessories and may
contain recycled or bio-based materials.
Installation solutions can be found under the following ancillary SIN:
238910 - Include installation and site preparation services ordered in conjunction with
buildings and structures, building materials, storage tanks/systems, services for
alternative energy solutions or power distribution equipment, and fuel dispensing and
management systems purchased under this schedule contract.

Salient Characteristics of a Building
Below are some examples of salient characteristics that can be used to assist in
determining potential requirements for buildings.
Building Code Requirements:
•
•
•
•

International
Federal
State
Local

Building Framing:
•
•
•
•
•

Material
Square Footage
Framing
Bay Spacing
Eaves Heights

Page | 6

• Roof Pitch
• Sheeting
• Insulation
• Rod Bracing
• Wind Posts
• Columns
• Roof Beams
• Anchor Bolt Layouts
• Primary and Secondary Structural Components
• Primed Structural Components, Purlins, and Girts
• Paint Ready Material
• Design Adaptability
• Regulatory Compliance: Federal, State, Local Codes for any location
•
Roofing and Gutter Systems:
• Pitch
• Seam
• Roof Panels
• Roofing Material
• Fall Protection for Erectors
• Warranty for Finish Panels
• Warranty Includes: all structural components...blistering, peeling, cracking or
chipping
• Corrosion Protection
• Design Adaptability
• Regulatory Compliance: Federal, State, Local Codes for any location

Walls, Fascia Door, Lighting, Electrical, Flooring, HVAC, and Windows:
• Personnel Doors
• Windows
• Vents
• Access Panels
• Cargo Doors
• Corrosion Protection
• Design Adaptability

Page | 7

Environmental:
• Environmental Standards
• Erection Drawings
• Certified (drawings)
Service:
• Customer Service Availability / Engineering Solutions
• On-Site Technical Representative
• Site Prep
• Installation (distance of utilities)
Logistics:
• Delivery / Shipmen

Ordering Procedures
The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) guides the correct use of the MAS Program.
Ordering procedures vary based on whether or not a Statement of Work (SOW) is
required. Ordering activities must use the procedures in FAR 8.405-1 when ordering
Schedule contract supplies (products) and fixed-price services for a specific task, where
a Statement of Work (SOW) is not required (e.g.; installation, maintenance, and repair).
For Ordering Procedures for Services Requiring a Statement of Work (SOW) (e.g.,
when ordering Schedule contract services priced at hourly rates), please refer to FAR
8.405-2.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
1. Are temporary buildings covered under disaster recovery program?
Yes. Any temporary building maybe ordered under the disaster recovery program,
depending on the requirements of the customer.
2. Do pre-engineered and pre-fabricated buildings and structures include
electrical wiring and plumbing?
Yes, the buildings and structures include options that make the units fully operating
buildings.
3. Where can I point customers for assistance?

Page | 8

Customers requiring assistance should contact the GSA National Customer Service
Center 800-488-3111, ncsccustomer.service@gsa.gov. Ask to speak with your agency
customer account POC.
4. Are any of the prefabs made with sustainable materials? If so, what? If not,
is there any future vision in the industry to create sustainable prefabs?
‘Sustainable’ doesn’t have a definite definition. We have some vendors that have
buildings made from scrap metal. Ongoing initiative to get sustainable...
5. Are any of the prefabs LEED certified?
No buildings are LEED certified at this time
6. Are sidewalks and utilities required to complete a project covered under any
ancillary services SINS or categories?
Sidewalks fall under SIN 238910, installation and site preparation requiring
construction. Utility hook up is within the scope of SIN 238910; the requirement for utility
hook up is determined by the customer.
7. What services (minor construction, ancillary repair) are included in the
procurement of the prefab building?
Any services beyond delivery of the building are not covered under the building SIN.
Services must be solicited and quoted under the applicable services SIN. The
applicable SIN is determined by the extent of services required to provide a turnkey
solution.
8. What types of services are excluded when hooking up a prefab building to
he utilities?
Any non-standard electrical requirement within the building.
9. What is included in the building itself?
Standard and optional items vary by contract, dependent on the standard and optional
items offered by the contractor. Non-contract items may can be included in a
procurement as open market items. However, open market items are subject to
formal price evaluation procedures.
10. How does GSA define "Construction", "Ancillary Repair & Alteration", and
"Minor Construction"?
Complex construction is not approved under GSA MAS contracts.
Page | 9

Facilities Structures includes commercial products that may require services in
conjunction with the purchase of the product.
There are 3 basic types of services available:
•

ANCILLARY SIN Ancillary Service for functions such as set up, simple
installation, training, etc. (excludes construction and services subject to the
Service Contract Act)

•

ANCRA SIN Ancillary Repair and Alteration requiring minor construction
(includes Davis Bacon and construction clauses)

•

SIN 238910 Installation and Site Preparation requiring Construction, which is
necessary, to install a Pre-Engineered or Prefabricated Building or Structure,
(includes Davis Bacon and Construction Clauses).

Ancillary Repair & Alteration SINs are available in conjunction with purchase of
products that require minor construction to be installed properly, such as minor
construction necessary to install a door or window, repair drywall, or paint a room.
SIN categories are also available to provide installation and site prep requiring
construction, services ordered in conjunction with purchase of products to be installed
under the Schedule contract—i.e., a prefabricated building, solar energy system,
roofing, generator, transformer, etc. Davis Bacon and Construction Clauses are
incorporated into Facilities Structures contracts offering installation and site preparation
requiring construction and R&A. GSA negotiates fixed rates for services (rates include
consideration of prevailing Davis Bacon wage rates). The applicable Davis Bacon wage
determination is incorporated at the task order level, when place of performance has
been determined.
11. Does the schedule include furniture, bathroom fixtures, kitchenettes, etc.?
Contracts usually do not include furniture. However, it is routine to include optional
bathroom fixtures or kitchenettes depending on the building and contractor. A
eaming arrangement may be necessary to furnish the building or structure.
12. What preconditions are required at the proposed site? This would include
water and sewer lines, electric and gas connections etc.
These utilities must be available at the site.
13. If extensive site preparation is required, is this covered under the schedule?
Site prep is covered under the installation and site preparation SINs, which cover
specific products categories:

Page | 10

SIN 238910 Site preparation is limited to the immediate location of the installation,
such as leveling and clearing ground, pouring a cement pad, etc.
14. Is the foundation part of the schedule?
Yes, a foundation is included under installation and site preparation requiring
construction SIN 238910.
15. Since foundations are necessary, is this considered ancillary?
A foundation is considered under installation and site preparation.
16. Are there limits on site preparation costs?
No, any cost/price decision is determined by the customer. GSA MAS contracts
do not include a limitation at the contract or order level.
17. Are there options for leasing? Yes, SIN 532490P Lease/Rental of PreEngineered/Prefabricated Buildings and Structures. This includes portable/mobile office
buildings, restroom facilities, and temporary living quarters such as mobile homes and
ension fabric structures. The lease or rental of these portable structures are suitable for
emergencies and disaster recovery efforts.
GSA Points of Contac
Kyle Finegan, Contracting Officer
kyle.finegan@gsa.gov
817-850-8233
Mataya Jordan, Section Chief
mataya.jordan@gsa.gov
817-850-8161
Ahisha Alexander, Branch Chief
ahisha.alexander@gsa.gov
817-850-8358

Sample Statement of Objectives and Statement of Work
When writing a Statement of Objective or Statement of Work, when possible state the
purpose, rather than the specific detail. This will allow the contractor to propose based
on the materials they would use, rather than the materials necessary to complete the
project. This can result in lower pricing. If a specific detail is required, then list.
Page | 11

STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES (SOO)
Title: Secure Temporary Office Modular Project (STOMP)
1.0 Purpose. This Statement of Objectives (SOO) describes the basic objectives for the
completion of a Secure Temporary Office Modular Project (STOMP). The Statement of
Objectives is provided in lieu of a Government written Statement of Work (SOW). This
approach provides potential offerors the flexibility to develop cost effective solutions and
he opportunity to assess the offeror's understanding of all aspects of the effort to be
performed by eliminating the "how to'' instructions to accomplish the required effor
normally contained on the SOW the government provides to prospective offerors.
Teaming (teaming arrangement) with other schedule holders may be necessary to
complete your proposal.
2.0 Period and Place of Performance. 150 days. Hill Air Force Base, Utah
3.0 Background. The STOMP shall have the following attributes:
• Minimum of 32,600 SQFT to house approximately 300 staff and required equipment.
(Attached floor plan solution utilizes 46 trailers at 11’-10” x 60’)
252 work stations (cubicles).
• 11 private Supervisors Offices
• 3 Planning (Conference) Rooms
• 2 Men’s multi-stall restrooms
• 2 Women’s multi stall restrooms
• Lobby with Security Checkpoint desk
• Entry Vestibule
• 1 Men’s and 1 Women’s Lobby Restroom
• 1 Break Area/Kitchen
• 1 Communications Room
• 1 private MCCR (Communications Manager) Office
• 1 Receiving Bay with Rollup Door
• 1 janitor’s close
• 4 storage closets (1 in lobby)
• 1 Mechanical Room
• 1 Electrical Room
Specifications:
Basis of proposal: Proposal is based on the statement of objectives and drawings
reflected herein. It is the intent of these documents to outline the requirements for a
emporary modular office complex to be factory manufactured off-site and delivered to a
specified location. The contractor is also responsible to prepare the site and connect the
utilities to the temporary facility.
Page | 12

Transportation permits: Transportation permits are the responsibility of the contractor.
Performance & Payment bonds: Performance and/or Payment bonds are required.
Insurance: Standard general liability and builder's risk coverage until work is complete.
Wage rates: Davis Bacon and prevailing wage rates and certified payroll excluded for
manufacture, delivery and incidental work relating to installation. Davis Bacon and
prevailing wage rates and certified payroll applies to only non-incidental work
performed on site.
Inspection approvals: Standard base inspection protocol will be utilized.
Close-out documents: Standard Operating & Maintenance manuals including warranty
information provided at the completion of the project.
Codes, Design Criteria: 2009 IBC/UFC/ADA/NEC/IPC/IMC/IECC. Buildings will be
constructed to meet or exceed standards as defined in 2009 IBC Occupancy Group B,
and Type V-B construction, sprinkled per UFC 3-600-1. The buildings are built in
compliance with UT state modular program. The Trailer Facilities are within allowable
story and floor limits for Occupancy and Type. The Trailer Facility buildings are no
subject to progressive collapse requirements (less than 3 stories). The Trailer Facility
structures are not subject to ATFP requirements due to both the nature of the structures
(relocatable building) and duration of intended use (5 years or less) UFC 4-010-01.
Design criteria: Wind - 90 mph wind exposure c; sprinkled; seismic as required for
HAFB, Utah; 50 psf floor load; 40 psf roof load.
Architectural/Engineering: Contractor shall employ the services of engineering
professionals as necessary to meet design criteria and meet applicable codes.
Frame: Perimeter type steel c-channel, sized to meet design criteria.
Transportation rigging: Removed and returned to mfg.
Floor Insulation: R-30 no moisture barrier
Joists: Sized and spaced to meet design criteria
Floor Decking: Minimum ¾” T&G
Underfloor board: 5/8” Plywood on underside of floor joists 3
Floor cover #1: Commercial carpet tiles all common staff areas, supervisor offices,
MCCR, conference rooms.
Page | 13

Floor cover #2: 1/8” Armstrong 12”x12” VCT floor tiles in bathrooms, lobby, Comm,
kitchen, break area, janitors closets, Mech room, Elec room, storage closets, and
hallways.
Floor cover #3: Recycled Tire Tread entrance flooring in Entry Vestibule. Also provide
a 6’x6’ area at the Side Lobby entrance.
Base molding #1: 4" continuous vinyl cove base- throughout building.
Exterior Walls: 2" x 6" wood studs spaced to meet design criteria. 5/8” Exterior
Plywood Sheathing, 5/8” Interior Sheetrock, R-21 insulation.
Siding: 29 gauge ¾” HI Rib Metal
Exterior trim: To match siding.
Perimeter Skirting: Siding/framing to match exterior finish with chain-link security
barrier buried to 12” depth below grade.
Interior Walls: 2x4 framing spaced to meet design criteria, ½” Sheetrock, R-13 sound
batts except around Lobby and RCV Bay, where sheetrock is 5/8” both sides.
Support Walls: Utilize mid-span walls/columns in each trailer module to lighten roof
beams/trusses.
Interior finish #1: Tape, texture to level 4 finish and paint in all areas except as noted.
Interior finish #2: Fiberglass reinforced panel (frp) - full height over 5/8" substrate on
wet walls in restrooms, janitor's closet.
Beams, Rafters, joists: Sized and spaced to meet design criteria.
Ceiling: 2' x 2' suspended acoustic with square edge.
Ceiling height: nominal 9'
Ceiling Insulation: R-38
Roof Sheathing: 5/8" plywood
Roof Joist Underside: 5/8” Sheetrock
Roofing: 60 mil epdm, 20 yr material warranty
Roof slope: 1/8 in 12

Page | 14

Rain Gutters: Mini over Doors
Emergency Exit: Double 3’-0" x 6'-8" 18 gallon painted reinforced metal door w/ 16
gallon HM with center stile between doors.
• Doors shall be secured with emergency egress hardware on the inside. No exterior
hardware. Egress hardware shall incorporate an integral Audible alarm which activates
upon opening.
• Doors shall be equipped with an automatic, non-hold door-closer which shall be
installed internal to the Facility.
• Hinges shall incorporate non-removal hinge pins
Interior Lockable Doors (Offices, Planning, MCCR, Storage, Janitor, Comm): 3’-0”
x 6’-8” Solid Core Prefinished Wood w/ Alum Frame.
• Provide with lockable lever hardware with removable cores.
• Offices, MCCR, Comm, Planning rooms to have glazing kits.
Interior Public Doors (Restrooms, Breakroom, Hallways): 3’-0” x 6’-8” single or
double (as shown) Solid Core Prefinished Wood w/ Alum Frame.
• Hardware to be Push-Pull with closers.
• Hallway and Breakroom doors to have glazing kits.
Outer Vestibule Entry Doors: Double 3’-0” x 6’-8” aluminum store front, mill bronze.
• Pull handles on exterior. Push handles in interior.
• Removable-core lock w/ integral simultaneous top/bottom latch on active leaf.
• Hinges shall incorporate non-removable hinge pins.
Inner Vestibule Access Doors: Double 3’-0” x 6’-8” 18 gallon painted reinforced metal
door w/ full lite, 16 gallon HM frame with center stile between doors.
• Doors shall be equipped with an automatic, non-hold door-closer which shall be
installed internal to the Facility
• Exit Door shall be equipped with emergency egress hardware on the inside.
• Entry Door shall have a removable-core lockable lever handle on the Lobby side.
Secured side hardware shall be a passage lever.
• Hinges shall incorporate non-removable hinge pins
• Entry door shall be provided with electric strike and installed so as to accommodate
Vindicator access.
Lobby Side Door: 3’-0" x 6'-8" 18 gallon painted reinforced metal door w/ 16 gallon HM
frame as configured on drawing.
• Door shall be equipped with an automatic, non-hold door-closer which shall be
installed internal to the Facility
• Door shall be equipped with emergency egress hardware on the inside.
• Door shall have a pull handle on the exterior of the door with a high security keyway
for use in the event of an access control system failure.
• Hinges shall utilize non-removable hinge pins
Page | 15

• Door shall have glazing kit.
Secure Access Doors (Lobby into Controlled Space): Separate 3'-0" x 6'-8" 18
gallon painted reinforced metal door w/ 16 gallon HM frame configured as per drawing.
One door is entrance to secure space. Other door is exit from secure space.
• Doors shall be equipped with an automatic, non-hold door-closer which shall be
installed on the secured side.
• The exit door shall be equipped with emergency egress hardware on the secure side.
No hardware on the lobby side
• Entrance door shall have a removable-core lockable latch handle installed on the
lobby side of the door and a passage latch handle installed on the secure side.
• Hinges shall utilize non-removable hinge pins
• Both doors shall have glazing kits.
Rollup Door: 8’x 7’ Insulated Rolling Door, 18 gallon minimum.
• Secure interior slide latches (both sides of door)
Equipment Room Doors: 3'-0" x 6'-8" 18 gallon painted reinforced metal door w/ 16
gallon HM frame configured as per drawing.
• Provide with lockable knob hardware with removable cores.
Glazing Kit: 6”x27” Reinforced Vision Kit where specified above.
Windows: 3'-0" x 4'-0" Fixed.
Glazing: Clear, dual glazed, low-e
Blinds: I" metal at each exterior window
Window Security: Windows shall be protected by permanently affixed reinforced steel
bars.
(a) Bars shall be a minimum of 1/2 inch diameter steel, welded vertically and
horizontally six inches on center. The bars shall be welded at intersections.
(b) The bars shall be secured to a frame. This frame shall be permanently anchored to
he secure-side wall with six inch anchors. Anchors shall be non-removable.
Electrical Service: Provide three phase 480/277 volt service for HVAC Units and
Lighting. Transform down to 208/120 volt for all other loads.
Panels: Provide and install interior sub panels and transformers, sized per design
criteria and code. Provide and install MDP as or if required. Connect sub panels to MDP
or disconnects on site as required.
Main Building panel: Provide and install exterior/interior mounted main distribution
panel (MDP) for a single point of connection ready for final utility connection.

Page | 16

Service connections: Provide and install conduit and wire to connect sub panels to
MDP.
Ground: Provide and install service ground rod at each MDP.
Transformers - regulators: Provide, install and connect all necessary transformers.
Circuit wiring: Per code #12 awg wire or greater
Conduit: EMT, MC cable
Interior lights: 2' x 4' fluorescent 3 bulbs recessed, t-8 electronic ballasts, prismatic. All
conference rooms to have dimmers for fluorescent lights.
Exterior lights: General purpose exterior lighting providing 360-degree facility
coverage.
Exit signs: As required by code
Emergency lights: 2' x 4' fluorescent 4 bulb, recessed, t-8 electronic ballasts, prismatic
diffusers with battery back-up, per code
Receptacles: 20 amp 125 VAC two pole 3 wire installed as per code. Also install 15
receptacles at office equipment to be locations designated by bldg. user (at drawing
review stage).
Dedicated receptacles or circuits: Dedicated wired j-box in ceiling above fire alarm
panel location prep for installed fire alarm system. Provide dedicated wired j-boxes in
ceiling for cubicle power interconnection at a rate of two workstations per circuit.
Office Furniture: Contractor to provide and install 152 cubicle workstations and
security desk workstation as per attached floor plan. Private offices and remaining
workstation locations shall be roughed for data and electrical (i.e. conduits/cables/fiber)
such that each location is ready for future furniture installation.
Break Room Appliances:
Exterior Outlets: Install outlets at exterior perimeter at the following locations:
• Near rollup door
• Near front entrance
• Adjacent to each HVAC uni
Voice & data: Provide and install boxes at 15 designated office equipment (printer, etc.)
locations with home run capability (via conduits and/or cable trays) to Data/Comm
Room.
Provide and install j-boxes above ceiling at all cubicle locations for interconnection to
cubicle workstations. Each cubicle requires capacity for 8 cables (either copper or fiber).
Provide home run capability (via conduits and/or cable trays) to Data/Comm Room.
Page | 17

Provide and install j-boxes in wall at all supervisor offices. Each cubicle requires
capacity for 8 cables (either copper or fiber) divided among 3 separate boxes/conduits
on each of 2 designated walls in each office. Provide home run capability (via conduits
and/or cable trays) to Data/Comm Room.
Provide, install and interconnect cable trays and conduits above ceiling between
modular units.
Fire Alarm: Provide & install fire protection flow switch and other alarm devices as
required by applicable codes.
Fire Alarm Connection: Provide devices (Monaco transmitter) to communicate fire
alarm signals with Fire Department. Provide all interconnecting conduit and wiring within
he building for a complete, working system.
Fire sprinkler system: Provide and install wet pipe fire sprinkler system to include riser
and shut off valves within the building.
Fire sprinkler system - interconnection: Provide labor and materials to connect fire
sprinkler system together to a single connection point below the floor (within the
crawlspace under the fire sprinkler closet). Design shall be based on adequate water
pressure being provided by customer. Testing included.
*Site Utilities: in the final purchase package, a site map will be included which
indicates existing utility locations, distances, and conditions.
Fire sprinkler system connection: Professionally size and connect building fire
sprinkler riser to site water source as indicated on Site Plan. Include backflow preventer,
post indicator valve, two fire hydrants, pumps, etc. as required.
Gas Connection: Professionally size and connect all gas-fired HVAC Units to
underground gas main at location indicated on site plan.
Electrical Utility Connection: Bring electrical from power source to single poin
electrical connection (480/277 Volt) at building. This will include the necessity of a stepdown transformer from the existing overhead service. Contractor to make final
connection to site power source. Refer to site plan.
Comm/Data Utility Connections: Run 2 each 4” Conduits from Communications
Room underground to a location 5’ east of the Modular Complex. Cap buried
underground ends. Insert pull strings in both conduits.
Potable Water Connection: Professionally size and connect building water system to
appropriate underground water main as indicated on site plan. Include meters, pressure
regulators, backflow preventers, etc.

Page | 18

Site preparation: Prepare site by grading and excavating for the foundation, utilities
and new parking. Compact as required per design. Prepare SWPPP and grade site
accordingly.
Below grade concrete: Labor and materials to provide engineered below grade
reinforced concrete footings. Bottom of footings to be below frost line (30”).
Site Concrete: Provide and install concrete steps, ramps, sidewalks, curbs, gutters,
utility pads per site drawing and ADA requirements. As a minimum, site concrete work
should include the following:
• Concrete stairs and landing at main entrance.
• 3’ x 8’ Concrete dock at Rolling Door
• Concrete handicap ramp at main entrance
• Concrete sidewalk/walkway from proposed parking lot area to main entry steps/ramp.
Emergency exit stairs: Provide metal (Galvanized steel or aluminum) landing and
stairs with handrails at all emergency exit locations and at side Lobby Door and
Equipment room door. Landings to be 5’x7’. Utilize open stair tread material for
stairs/landing.
Fire extinguishers: As required by code
Water lines: PEX / copper
Shutoff valves: Chrome all fixtures
Exterior faucets: Frost proof with plumbers key
Water line interconnections: Make crossover connections (hot and cold water lines) a
modular mainlines, as or if required
Waste lines: PVC schedule 40 drains & vent, individual stubs to crawl space
Sewer manifold: Provide labor and materials as necessary to manifold individual sewer
stubs together to a single point of connection within crawl space (including clean-outs
per code).
Water coolers: Two (2) dual height, ADA compliant, electric in areas designated by
customer
Water heaters: Multiple electric on-demand sized appropriate for use requirements and
conditions.
Janitors sink: Floor mounted commercial grade, includes faucet and dual handles.
Brackets and shelving to hold housekeeping items.

Page | 19

Toilets: Floor mounted, flush valve, elongated bowl, vitreous china, ADA compliant
Urinals: Wall hung vitreous china with flush valve
ADA grab bars: Brushed, stainless steel, per code
Rest room accessories: Dual roll toilet paper holder at each toilet. Paper towel,
dispensers, mirrors.
Toilet partitions: Baked Enamel
HVAC: Wall mount Gas/Electric HVAC Package Unit. Natural gas heat, 3 phase
electric. Quantity and sized to be determined by Mechanical designer. In addition to the
calculated building loads, 10 tons of cooling should be allotted to the Communications
Room. All HVAC units to be interconnected to single HVAC emergency shutoff located
at security desk.
HVAC Security: Vents or duct openings that penetrate the perimeter of the Facility and
exceed 96 square inches shall be protected with permanently affixed bars or grills.
(a) If bars are used, they shall be a minimum of 1/2 inch diameter steel, welded
vertically and horizontally six inches on center. The bars shall be welded a
intersections. The bars shall be secured to a frame. This frame shall be anchored to the
secure-side wall with six inch anchors.
(b) If grills are used, they shall be of ¾ inch-mesh, #9 (10 gauge), case-hardened,
expanded metal.
(c) If bars or grill are required, an access port shall be installed inside the secure
perimeter of the Secure Facility to allow visual inspection of the bars or grill.
Supply ducts: Galvanized with exterior insulation
Registers: 24" x 24" adjustable manufacturer's std
Return air: 24" x 24" adjustable manufacturer's std
Thermostats: 7 day programmable with occupant override variable, include locking
covers over thermostats.
Test & balance: Certified test and balance
Bath exhaust: Switched fans, sized per code.
Counter tops: Solid surface w/ integral sinks
Backsplash: Ceramic tile backsplash or equal
Cabinets: Base and overheads, with solid hardwood fronts
Page | 20

Shelving: Melamine covered, at storage closets
Cleaning: Clean entire building, remove all labels, vacuum floor, strip, 2 coats sealer
and 3 coats wax on all VCT.
4.0 Performance Objectives. The purpose of this statement of objectives is to obtain a
contractor to support the Temporary Modular Trailer Facility. Under this effort the
contractor is responsible for providing all personnel, supplies, and logistics for the
completion of this project. The contractor performs the required work in accordance with
all industry standards and regulations.
4.2 Subcontractor Expenditures Plan - Deliverable. The Contractor shall prepare and
deliver a Subcontract Expenditures Report that discloses actual subcontrac
expenditures by company name, business size standard (i.e., Woman Owned Business,
Veteran Owned Business, etc.), and other socioeconomic programs (i.e., Indian
Incentive Program, Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Minority Institutions,
etc.). See FAR Part 19.
4.3 Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP). The Conductor shall establish a
complete Quality Control Program (QC P) to assure the requirements of the contract are
provided as specified. The QCP shall be an identifying issue in the quality of services
before the level of performance is unacceptable, and should be contained within a
formal written Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan which must be submitted with the
vendor final proposal. The program and document shall be subject to the approval of
he Contracting Officer (CO) and the Contracting Officer's Technical
Representative(COTR).
4.4 Applicable Information. Contractor is responsible for providing:
• Recommendations for industry proven cost cutting methods, and improved
performance measures under the contract.
• Effectively ensuring quality control.
• Ensure that all contractor and subcontractor personnel proposed to work on the
premises under this contract are US Citizens or Naturalized Citizens and must be
eligible to work on premises. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in
ermination of this contract or removal of some contractor's employees form facilities.
4.5 Constraints. Contractor shall work normal hours of 8 am to 4:30 pm Monday thru
Friday. Work outside these hours must be approved in advance. Contractor must notify
he Contracting Officer of any utility interruption 48 hours in advance. Normal operations
of the campus must be kept in operation while the construction is being performed. The
contractor must supply any temporary equipment or work needed to keep operations
functioning with respect to utility interruptions. Roads and parking areas must be kep
operational except for short durations and then only one lane closure is acceptable. Any
damage to the Govt is the responsibility of the contractor to repair including the
Page | 21

grounds, roadways, curbs and sidewalks. Contractor must comply with base safety and
construction policies and with all state and federal safety requirements.

STATEMENT OF WORK (SOW)
Statement of Work – Modular Office Space 1
1 – Scope of Contrac
Provide and set-up a 24’ x 60’modular office. Set-up shall include blocking, leveling,
seismic anchors and skirting. The contractor shall provide a permanent accessible
entrance ramp and landing meeting ABA Accessibility Standards: http://www.accessboard.gov/guidelines-and-standards/buildings-and-sites/about-the-aba-standards/abastandards . Offerers shall submit with their proposal, a floor plan and complete
specifications on materials and construction details to demonstrate the ability to mee
he requirements herein. As an option the contractor shall install utility lines from the
existing office trailer to the new modular office location including power, water, sewer,
phone and data (conduit only for data and phone). Connect power, water and sewer as
shown on the drawings and specified herein. As an option the contractor shall unhook
all utilities from the existing office trailer leaving the stub outs in place and demolish the
existing office trailer.
List of Attachments:
• VicinityMap
• Almanor District Site Plan
1.1 – Project Location:
The site is located at 900 Highway 36 in Chester, CA. The contractor shall confirm the
acceptability of the route to the pad.
1.2 – Government Furnished Property
Government Furnished & Contractor Installed: None
Government Furnished and Government Installed:
• Data/Telecommnetwork equipment and main lines from the existing Fire Trailer
• Refrigerator
1.3 – Contractor Furnished Property and Submittals
The Contractor shall furnish all labor, materials (except as listed in paragraph 1.2),
equipment, supervision, and transportation necessary for the successful completion of
he work described in this contract. A complete set of drawings, stamped by a California
licensed engineer and specifications for products to be incorporated in the modular uni
shall be submitted for approval 30 days prior to beginning production. Drawings shall
include plan, elevation and detail views of the building, foundation,
Page | 22

anchoring and skirting sufficient to determine conformance to the contract. Plans shall
also include electrical load calculations so the government can ensure Pacific Gas&
Electric (PG&E) has sufficient power to the meter.
1.4 – Utilities(Option B)
Contractor shall be responsible for locating and protecting above and below ground
utilities in the project area. At the site for the new office there used to be a residence
which had water, sewer, power and LPG lines. All these utilities have been abandoned
but may still be in place. The power line was an overhead line and is indicated on the
site plan. See site plan for location of existing utility tie-in points.
1.4.1 - Power
Disconnect the underground conductors that feed the existing office trailer from the box
on the west side of the building or from the control panel?. Provide a new PG&E
approved service entrance panel on the modular office exterior wall at the location
shown on the site plan. Install underground 3” PVC conduit from under the existing
abandoned office trailer to the new modular service entrance panel. Conduit shall be
buried at code depth with properly compacted bedding and backfill material. Where the
rench is under asphalt, backfill the top 9” with 6” of compacted ¾” minus crushed
aggregate and 3” of ½” minus asphalt. In all other locations, the top 6” of the trench
shall be compacted ¾” minus crushed aggregate. Run proper sized conductors from the
meter pedestal to the new service entrance panel.
1.4.2 - Water
Install underground water line conduit from under the existing abandoned office trailer to
he new modular service entrance panel. Conduit shall be buried at code depth with
properly compacted bedding and backfill material. Where the trench is under asphalt,
backfill the top 9” with 6” of compacted ¾” minus crushed aggregate and 3” of ½” minus
asphalt. In all other locations, the top 6” of the trench shall be compacted ¾” minus
crushed aggregate. Tie into existing 1-inch PVC waterline at existing service modular
office. Install a new NIBCO4660-S ball valve that is reachable through a Hallmann
Sales, LLC GP-100 10”x10” access door installed in the skirting. Insulate all piping with
self-sealing closed cell foam tubing
1.4.3 - Sewer
Install underground sewer line conduit from under the existing abandoned office trailer
o the new modular service entrance panel. Maintain a minimum of 1% slope in the new
sewer line from the new modular office to the existing sewer connection under the
existing abandoned office trailer. Conduit shall be buried at code depth with properly
compacted bedding and backfill material. Where the trench is under asphalt, backfill the
op 9” with 6” of compacted ¾” minus crushed aggregate and 3” of ½” minus asphalt. In
all other locations, the top 6” of the trench shall be compacted ¾” minus crushed
aggregate. Tie into existing sewer line to service the modular office. Modify and extend
underground line as necessary to provide a new accessible cleanout in a plastic valve
box labeled “SEWER”.

Page | 23

1.4.4 – Data/Telecom
Protect existing conduit that stubs up under the existing mobile office trailer for reuse by
he government.
1.5 - Use of Utilities
Contractor may use electric, water and sanitary facilities at the project area.
1.6 – Protection of Existing improvements
Pavement, buildings, landscaping and other improvements shall be protected by the
Contractor. The
Contractor shall be responsible for repairing any damage to improvements.
1.7 – Office Trailer Demolition(Option A)Statement of Work – Modular Office Space 3
The existing office trailer shall be removed and disposed of off the existing governmen
property. Work includes utility disconnection, removal and disposal of office trailer.
A. Regulatory Requirements: Comply with governing EPA notification regulations before
beginning demolition. Comply with hauling and disposal regulations of authorities having
jurisdiction.
B. Hazardous Materials: It is not expected that hazardous materials will be encountered
in the Work.
1. The Government before start of the Work will remove hazardous materials.
2. If materials suspected of containing hazardous materials are encountered, do no
disturb; immediately notify the CO. The Government under a separate contract will
remove hazardous materials.
C. Existing Utilities: Locate, identify, disconnect, and seal or cap off indicated utilities
serving buildings and structures to be demolished.
1. Arrange to shut off indicated utilities with utility companies.
2. If utility services are required to be removed, relocated, or abandoned, before
proceeding with building demolition provide temporary utilities that bypass buildings and
structures to be demolished and that maintain continuity of service to other buildings
and structures.
3. Cut off pipe or conduit a minimum of 24 inches (610 mm) below grade. Cap, valve, or
plug and seal remaining portion of pipe or conduit after bypassing. Leave a t-post or lath
at each utility location with a label indicating each utility so they can be located when
performing the utility work for the new modular office.
1.8 – Modular Office Pad
The government will provide a site that is relatively level and capable of a minimum
1500 psf bearing capacity.
1.9 – Modular Office Uni
Bathroom dimensions shall be adjusted as necessary to meet accessibility standards.
Below are the minimum requirements that must be met:

Page | 24

General:
1. Unit shall be fully accessible and meet the International Building Code. Unit shall be
designed and installed to meet the snow, wind and seismic forces for the location.
2. Office area shall consist of four private offices with the balance of space being open
office area for maximum flexibility.
3. Provide accessible entry door(s) as required by code with photocell metal halide
security lights. Entry door(s) shall be ANSI/SDI-100, Grade III, extra heavy-duty, Model
2 + 2A, with minimum 16-gauge galvanized steel faces. Frame(s) shall be 16-gauge
galvanized steel with one piece welded construction.
4. Minimum R-19 wall, R-38 roof and R-11 floor insulation or meet latest California code
requirement, whichever is greater.
5. Roof shall be gable style with minimum 12 inch eaves and rakes. Provide minimum
30 year standing seam roof. Color shall be selected by the Contracting Officer from the
manufacturers standard color selections.
6. Exterior siding and skirting shall be LP Architectural Collection 16 inch Double 8” Bold
Profile or approved equal. Skirting shall be secured to the ground with 2” x 4” pressure
reated wood rated for ground contact. Remaining framing to support skirting shall be 2”
x 4” @ 16” OC and installed straight with no visible waviness in the finished skirting.
Use matching LP SmartSide trim and fascia for building and skirting and LP SmartSide
Soffit for the eave and rake enclosures.
7. Provide minimum ½” drywall interior with manufacturer’s standard finish. Color shall
be selected by the Contracting Officer from the manufacturers standard color selections.
8. Ceiling shall be heavy duty Armstrong 15/16” T-grid with Armstrong #1733, 2' x 4' x
5/8" acoustical lay-in tiles or approved equal. Any damaged components from shipping
o the site shall be replaced with new.
9. Interior doors shall be NWWDA I.S.1-A solid core or better with factory finish. Color
shall be selected by the Contracting Officer from the manufacturers standard color
selections.
10. All door hardware shall be heavy duty commercial grade with satin chrome finish.
Entrance lockset shall be Schlage ND53PD RHO 626 or approved equal. Office
locksets shall be AL50PD SAT 626 or approved equal. Exterior door(s) shall have
continuous weather seals and keyed alike locks. Private offices shall have locks keyed
separately that will also unlock entrance door(s).
11. Windows shall be Milgard Style Line Horizontal Sliders with Suncoat Low-E glass or
approved equal. Minimum size shall be 4’0” x 3’6”.
12. Wall to wall carpet throughout office areas shall be minimum 26 oz. commercial
grade loop pile. Install by direct glue down method. Color shall be selected by the
Contracting Officer from the manufacturers standard color selections.
13. Exterior siding and trim colors shall be selected by the Contracting Officer from the
manufacturers standard color selections. Paint shall be Kelly Moore, Benjamin Moore,
Sherwin Williams acrylic latex or approved equal.
Bathrooms:
1. One Men’s & one Women’s fully accessible bathroom in compliance with the ABA
Accessibility Standards.
2. One commercial duty toilet or approved equal per bathroom.
Page | 25

3. One vitreous china sink, 304 SS framed mirror, GFCI outlet, 304 SS double roll toilet
paper holder and 304 SS tri-fold paper towel dispenser per bathroom.
4. Ventilation fan in each bathroom that comes on with the light and has adjustable off
delay.
5. Commercial 0.080” sheet vinyl flooring. Color shall be selected by the Contracting
Officer from the manufacturers standard color selections.
Kitchenette: (Option C)
1. Base cabinet length shall be 5 feet to include a 30” sink base with double doors and
30” base with two drawers and double doors. Leave room for a 36” governmen
furnished refrigerator between the cabinet and the wall.
2. Matching wall cabinet length shall be 5 feet to include two 30” wide by 42” tall double
door cabinets.
3. Matte finish one piece laminate countertop with bull nose drip edge and integral
backsplash.
4. Single bowl stainless steel sink with soap tray, Elkay Model ECC2522 or approved
equal.
5. Moen Model 7425BC Chateau single lever faucet or approved equal.
6. Cabinets shall be Armstrong Allwood in Branford style or approved equal. Wood
finish to match interior doors.
7. All doors and drawers shall have brushed stainless steel wire pull handles.
8. Mounted 5 pound Type A-B-C fire extinguisher in semi-recessed wall cabinet.
HVAC & Plumbing:
1. Instantaneous electric water heaters mounted under all sinks.
2. Ducted high efficiency HVAC system using external wall mounted high efficiency hea
pumps with economizers and auxiliary electric heat. No jump ducts allowed.
3. Ducted bathroom exhaust fans per code requirements
4. 7-day programmable thermostat with battery backup.
5. All copper or Pex waterlines. Insulate all piping with self-sealing closed cell foam
ubing
6. Provide a cleanout for the trunk lines under the modular and extend to the skirting
with a stainless steel Watts CO-480-RD cover or approved equal.
Electrical/Communications:
1. Provide T-8 2’ x 4’ lay-in fluorescent lighting with prismatic diffusers and electronic
ballasts throughout. Lighting levels shall be appropriate for office occupancy.
2. Provide a minimum of 20 duplex wall outlets and 4 duplex floor outlets. Floor outlets
shall be placed in the open space a minimum of 8 feet from any wall. All duplex outlets
in office areas shall be 20A and spaced as needed to meet code.
3. Provide a 2 port data outlet (phone and data) adjacent to each duplex electrical outle
with a ¾” conduit and pull string run in the wall to above the suspended ceiling.
1.10 – Final Testing
Upon completion, the building and utility systems shall be tested in the presence of the
COR to ensure all components and systems are functioning properly. Provide the COR
with a 3 business day advanced notice. If installation of the utilities option is no
Page | 26

performed contractor shall perform utility testing with a generator for the power and shall
pressurize the water system using potable water from a portable water tank. During the
sewer system testing use only potable water and use only enough water to ensure the
system is working correctly. The water from the sewer system test may run onto the
ground.
2 – Time for Completion
All work (including final clean-up) shall be completed within 60 calendar days from the
issuance of the Notice to Proceed.

APPENDIX A: SAMPLE MODULAR / PRE-ENGINEERED PHOTOS

Page | 27

Page | 28

Page | 29

